

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Energy Initiative-Supported Project Connects Brain Science with Electric
Cars

August 25, 2017

Electronics developed for deep brain stimulation useful for electric vehicles
too

_By Braden Welborn of theDuke Energy Initiative_

Technology developed to help neurosurgeons and neuroscientists control
electric currents during noninvasive brain stimulation could also lead to
safer, more efficient batteries for electric cars and solar panels, thanks to
seed funding from the Duke University Energy Initiative.

Neuroscientists tend to be power-hungry. While the 110-volt outlet behind your
desk produces a current of about 20 amps of electricity, the magnetic fields
used in noninvasive brain stimulation draw about 5,000 amps -- roughly the
same amount required to power a ship. Neuroscientists can't exactly plug into
the wall for that kind of juice, so they need strong, reliable and safe
electronic circuits.

Duke researcher Stefan Goetz, an assistant professor of psychiatry and
behavioral science, electrical engineering and neurosurgery, has developed
high-performance electronics that control electrical pulses in noninvasive
magnetic brain stimulation.

A few years ago, spurred by conversation with School of Medicine and Pratt
School of Engineering colleague Angel Peterchev, who has appointments in
psychiatry and behavioral sciences, electrical and computer engineering,
biomedical engineering and neurosurgery, a question began to nag at Goetz:
Could this same technology solve the battery woes of electric vehicles?

Today's EVs have large battery packs—the bottom of the car is filled with
high-voltage batteries, as well as a range of electronics necessary for
conversion of DC power to 12-volt power (for features like entertainment
systems, air conditioning or GPS) and three-phase power (for the electric
motor).

"In most situations when you're using electricity," Goetz said, "you'll have a
power source and then electronics to reshape the current, constantly switching
on and off before it goes to your device." A traditional EV battery pack
always emits at its full voltage—400 volts—and rapidly switches off and on to
produce the appropriate volts and amps of electricity.

"Today's electric vehicles do have extensive and reliable safety monitoring
systems to address the high voltage and highly reactive chemistry of the
battery packs. Still, I think we'd all agree it's worth exploring alternative
approaches that take those risks off the table," Goetz said.

When Goetz and other Duke researchers proposed applying their power conversion
approach from neurosurgery to grid-storage and mobility applications, the U.S.
Department of Energy responded along the lines of "We're very interested, but
we need to see something concrete," Goetz said.

So Goetz and Peterchev turned to Duke University's Energy Research Seed Fund,
which supported them and Pratt School of Engineering professor Josiah Knight
to develop a prototype for the battery and converter system.

In a competitive grant process, the Energy Initiative and other on-campus
partners annually award up to $40,000 seed funding to five to eight
multidisciplinary teams for energy research.

The seed funding helped Goetz and team develop their ideas enough that the
National Science Foundation awarded the team and colleagues based at the
FREEDM Systems Center at North Carolina State University a $500,000 grant to
develop new control systems that would allow electric vehicles to make the
most of the new battery approach.

The Duke team's approach streamlines the amount of electronics required for
conversions, and modularizes the battery. Their circuit arranges 16 small
packets of batteries (each with up to 40 volts) so that the output follows a
sinuous wave -- peaking and subsiding. The switches combine the small packets
dynamically to reconfigure the battery at very high speeds, activating each of
the pancake-sized packets in series or parallel.

The Duke team's approach can generate outputs at higher quality, with greater
efficiency, and at lower cost than traditional EV batteries. And modularizing
the battery into small packets of 40 volts can also improve safety. Finally,
the approach can reduce wear on the motor and other components.

Goetz points out that Knight's contributions have been critical. "In electric
vehicles, the electronics do become the heart of the vehicle—but that heart
can't function unless it's working in coordination with the rest of the body.
Josiah's expertise helps us treat the project holistically."

Now student members of the Duke Electric Vehicles (EV) racing team are helping
build an urban-concept vehicle around the new battery.

"We are hoping to compete with this machine in the urban-concept category at
the Shell Eco-marathon Americas next year," said Knight, who advises the Duke
EV team.

The NSF funding is also letting the team explore applications of the battery
approach to solar energy systems.

In most solar homes, electronics are installed to convert the energy captured
by those cells then emit it in 110-volt alternating current that is in sync
with the power grid. But what about nighttime and cloudy days?

Many companies market storage systems that “bridge” periods of night and
shade, but they usually consist of a loose set of solar cells, electronics,
battery packs, and separate electronics that convert from the battery to the
grid.

“The flow of energy is hardly efficient—and a cloud or small shadow on just
one cell can come close to shutting down your whole system,” Goetz said. “But
we’ve realized that by incorporating a battery pack very similar to what we’ve
developed for EVs, we can get the maximum out of the cells with shadows while
continuing to draw on the full power of the other cells. The structure allows
us to integrate energy storage with little additional effort,” he said. “That
generates maximum impact: feeding into the grid and integrating batteries with
no extra electronics.”

Goetz’s and Peterchev’s work also crosses over with Pratt professor Jeff
Glass’s exploration of solar cells that are flexible film with electronics and
battery printed on the same material. Their potential collaboration is in its
early stages, but Goetz is excited about the possibilities.

“With film you can flex it and integrate it, and have a very cheap solar
battery, a systeOncm with everything integrated,” Goetz said. “So we’re trying
to make the electronics fit with those flexible processes, so that we have
something that could be used anywhere in the world, relatively cheaply.”

Goetz and graduate student Chris Dougher also teamed up to enter Duke
University’s Startup Challenge with a business plan for their “Perle
Converter,” which emerged from the research supported by the Energy Research
Seed Fund and the NSF grant.

The modular multilevel series and parallel converter uses low-voltage
semiconductor switches to take a DC input and create an AC output while
connecting the power sources dynamically in series and in parallel. It was
awarded the Startup Challenge’s Clean Energy Prize for 2017, which was
sponsored by the Energy Initiative.

Dougher and Goetz are targeting electric vehicle, solar energy, and battery
storage markets. They estimate that current domestic demand for converters
exceeds 2.1 million—and is projected to jump to more than 8.3 million by 2019.
Dougher is pursuing a Master of Environmental Management (MEM) at the Nicholas
School of the Environment and a Master of Business Administration (MBA) at the
Fuqua School of Business.

“My research has taken so many unexpected turns through collaboration at
Duke—and I love that,” says Goetz. “It’s very intentional, how this university
brings people together across disciplines to work on important problems like
energy. And it’s a strategy that helps make Duke researchers’ work stronger
and more actionable.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

