

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bringing Ideas from the Kitchen to the Marketplace

December 9, 2021 | Michaela Kane

From a smart and safe knife block to an oven that bakes the perfect cookie,
Duke Engineering’s first-ever Managing Product Design “Trade Show” highlighted
student ingenuity

Normally the Fitzpatrick Atrium isn’t filled with booths displaying a variety
of kitchen supplies, but that wasn’t the case during the Managing Product
Design Trade Show. During the event, held on Monday, November 22, Master of
Engineering Management and undergraduate engineering upperclassmen student
teams collaborated in presenting culinary tools to their peers and engineering
faculty.

“I always thought of the kitchen as a very creative space in the house, and I
thought it would be an area where our students could come up with really
interesting products,” said Greg Twiss, an adjunct associate professor in the
Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke
University.

Over the course of a semester, MEM students collaborated with junior and
senior undergraduate engineering students to conceive, design, and test an
electromechanical “smart” kitchen product. The teams were required to create
these products under realistic time, budget, and performance constraints.

During the Trade Show, the teams put together elaborate booths where they
discussed how they came up with their products, what need or issue they
address and the development and design process. The teams were judged on their
designs, display, and presentation.

“We wanted to give students a chance to gain practical experience, not only
with the design and development of a product, but also with product
presentation,” says Twiss. “Trade shows are an excellent way to pitch and
market a product, but with COVID opportunities have been limited. This
internal Trade Show ended up being a great solution, and I think everyone
enjoyed learning more about what their peers were working on.”

Projects included DoughLove, a small and affordable cooker that was marketed
as an “Easy-Bake Oven for adults,” and promised to make the perfect cookie in
just 15 minutes. Ever worry that you’ve left your oven on? The Hestia team
devised a solution to that perennial question by developing a smart stove knob
that could connect to a user’s phone and allow them to remotely switch the
stove off.

The COVID-19 pandemic proved the importance of handwashing, and the WAVE2O
team aimed to make the process even cleaner by developing a tool that could
attach to and automate at-home sinks. By waving a hand in front of the WAVE
box, users could turn their faucet on for a set number of seconds, without
touching the faucet itself. The Time Savor team makes it easier than ever to
get a morning cup of coffee by creating a smart coffeemaker that can connect
to a user’s phone. Not only is the device self-cleaning, but it also allows
users to adjust the strength and temperature of their coffee via an app.

Finally, the MITOSO team presented a smart knife block. The tool contains six
standard-sized, color-coded knives, which are stored in a RFID-secured knife
block. The block prevents young children from grabbing a knife without adult
supervision. Users can unlock the block via a simple RFID tag or bracelet.

“We’re thrilled to see the variety of projects that our students came up with,
and we’ve been very impressed with their presentations,” says Twiss. “This
event was a tremendous success, and I’m looking forward to future Trade Shows
where we can continue to highlight our students’ impressive work.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

