

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Building Air Quality Infrastructure in South Asia

October 14, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Duke University leads new $2 million program to improve air quality monitoring
and public awareness throughout South Asia

Environmental engineers at Duke University have received a three-year, $2
million grant from the United States Department of State to create air quality
sensor networks and research programs in several countries throughout South
Asia. The project’s goal is to improve air quality and human health throughout
the region by partnering with local governmental and private sector partners
to improve air quality monitoring and public awareness.

Led by Mike Bergin, professor of civil and environmental engineering at Duke,
the project will build on a network of longtime collaborators from the
University of Wisconsin at Madison and Indian Institute of Technology at
Kanpur, and bring together many new collaborations with industry, governmental
and non-governmental organizations and universities across South Asia. The
program will build air quality sensor networks in Bangladesh, India, Nepal and
Sri Lanka and work to begin similar programs in Bhutan and the Maldives.

“Many of these regions have fantastic experts trained in air quality research,
but most don’t have any projects underway nor the equipment required to start
them,” said Bergin. “Members of our team have pioneered the development and
application of low-cost air quality sensors and demonstrated their usefulness
through several projects in China and India. Now our team will work with local
partners, universities and government agencies in six countries to build their
research capacity and improve their air quality with the expertise we know we
have.”

Air pollution is a growing global threat to human health, the environment and
economies. Air pollution across much of South Asia is at extremely unhealthy
levels, especially PM2.5, which are air particles that have a diameter of less
than 2.5 micrometers—about three percent of the diameter of a human hair—and
have been shown to have a dramatic effect on human health because of their
ability to travel deep into the lungs.

While many developed nations such as the United States and China have invested
resources in monitoring and mitigating sources of these pollutants, most
sensors are expensive and not within the reach of low-resource countries.
Bergin and his laboratory, however, have developed sensors costing hundreds
rather than tens of thousands of dollars that could help these regions catch
up.

For example, a recent study put these sensors into the homes of about 40
Chinese families to look at how air filters might improve people’s exposure
levels and overall health. Its success pointed to the possibility of using
these instruments to understand pollution in other places with very few
monitors. Once in place, Bergin hopes to pair local air quality measurements
with a deep learning approach developed with collaborators at Duke that can
estimate ground levels of PM2.5 based on high-resolution satellite imagery.

“Our vision is to make these super high-resolution maps of air pollution so
that we know where people get high exposures,” said Bergin. “With that
knowledge in hand, we can educate people about exposure and sources, help
modify their behavior in the short term to lower their exposure and improve
their health, and work with local governments to make actionable policy
changes to clean the air and create a more healthy environment.”

## Related News

April 22, 2020

### Spotting Air Pollution with Satellites, Better Than Ever Before

September 06, 2019

### Duke CEE Students Examine Air and Water in China

December 14, 2018

### Air Quality Solutions Will Require Changes in Who Can Access Data

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

