

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Building a Network to Last

August 11, 2020

The Duke Technology Scholars community is broad, strong, resilient—and growing
every year

### **_New city, familiar community_**

Alanna Robinson was moving to Seattle in just ten days to start a full-time
job as a software engineer at Zulily, but she still didn’t have a place to
live, she confessed to Maddie Nelson and Robin Lorenzini, two fellow Duke
alumnae, on a recent Zoom call.

Lorenzini piped up immediately. “I know of a room in Capitol Hill,” she said.
“I can get an air mattress over there tonight.” (Robinson reassured Lorenzini
that she was working with a realtor and felt confident she’d find an apartment
soon.)

Both Robinson, a recent graduate who majored in electrical and computer
engineering, and Nelson, who is an engineer at Microsoft, are alumnae of the
Duke Technology Scholars (DTech) program. Since 2016 the program has helped
female students studying computer engineering and computer science land
internships in the technology sector, connected them with experienced mentors
like Lorenzini, and provided housing shared with other program interns. The
program started with a single site in Silicon Valley but grew to include
Research Triangle Park, Chicago and Seattle. This summer, due to COVID, 108
DTech Scholars worked from locations all around the world.

The goal of the DTech program is to create a network of women who support one
another personally and professionally as they navigate the challenges common
to women just starting out in tech—everything from finding housing and jobs in
expensive tech hubs to negotiating salaries and addressing gender disparities
in the workplace. As more women graduate from the program and establish
themselves in their careers and communities, they can also mentor younger
DTech Scholars.

> The goal of the DTech program is to create a network of women who support
> one another personally and professionally as they navigate the challenges
> common to women just starting out in tech.

Feeling that support has been especially important over the past few months,
said Lorenzini, as the women in the network have adapted to restrictions
imposed by a global pandemic and grappled with issues of systemic racial
injustice. The Seattle cohort gathered for dinner once before stay-at-home
orders took effect and had been planning to reconvene every couple of months,
but now they meet much more frequently—at least once every two weeks—to talk
about these issues.

“We’ve spent a lot of time since May talking about how we can be better
allies, or better accomplices,” said Archana Ahlawat, a DTech Scholar who
graduated from Duke in 2019 after double majoring in computer science and
political science. Ahlawat, like Nelson, now works at Microsoft. “We talk
about how we can go about that in the most productive ways, especially because
we’re early in our careers. How can you speak up for your Black and LatinX
colleagues in the workplace, and how do you center the other person and the
issues at hand? DTech is a really comfortable and inclusive space, and it
makes it much easier to start conversations about these issues.”

For Robinson, belonging to DTech has eased the anxiety of transitioning from
college to a new job far from her home in Alabama—first, by connecting her
with her Zulily internship last summer, and also giving her a safe place from
which to explore Seattle with her roommates. A handful of those roommates are
moving back to Seattle for jobs at Microsoft, so Robinson now has a ready-made
community of friends to lean on. “'And simply knowing that Robin and several
of my other DTech friends will also be living in Seattle gives me so much
comfort. I can't imagine moving to a new city where I knew absolutely no one,”
added Robinson.

> “My enjoyment of my classes spiked, and recruiting season was easier—we were
> helping each other find jobs instead of competing for jobs.”
>
> Maddie Nelson '19

Nelson, who majored in electrical and computer engineering and computer
science, felt the benefits of belonging to DTech even before she entered the
workforce. As she progressed in her studies and moved closer to earning her
degree, Nelson said, she saw fewer and fewer women in her advanced classes.
Those who had stayed the course were friends from DTech, and offering and
accepting support were skills they’d developed fluency in. “My enjoyment of my
classes spiked,” said Nelson, “and recruiting season was easier—we were
helping each other find jobs instead of competing for jobs.”

### **_Safety net(work)_**

Some 12 hours away, in Tahoe, current student Natalie Novitsky has had a
roller-coaster summer. Novitsky, another ECE-CS double-major, is passionate
about sustainability. She had lined up a dream internship that aligned with
her skills and interests, at a startup developing autonomous electric vehicles
--but the internship was abruptly canceled by the company in March. “I sent
out another 50 applications, but it was like shouting into the void,” said
Novitsky. “I reached out to Amy (Arnold, executive director of DTech),
panicking. She put me in touch with Elliott Wolf, who runs the data science
team at Lineage Logistics.” Wolf is also a Duke alum—he majored in math before
earning advanced degrees in statistics and law from Stanford—and has hired
several interns from the DTech program.

Novitsky has spent the summer working on Wolf’s team, helping develop a system
to optimize the performance of huge climate-controlled warehouses by optically
scanning labeled pallets.

“I was skeptical—I had never done work like this in my life,” said Novitsky.
But a few weeks into her internship, she had a light-bulb moment when she
realized the work she was doing for Lineage Logistics could drastically reduce
the amount of energy the company uses. “Lineage processes roughly 40 percent
of our nation’s cold stored food, so the footprint is massive. Keeping that
much food refrigerated and then shipping it without any kind of algorithms to
determine what’s going on trucks—just having workers decide—means there’s a
lot of empty space being cooled,” said Novitsky.

> The algorithms Novitsky’s team are developing have already measurably
> reduced the corporation’s emissions footprint, and the engineers she’s
> working with have taught her how to pitch sustainability initiatives to
> executives, highlighting positive impacts on the bottom line.

The algorithms Novitsky’s team are developing have already measurably reduced
the corporation’s emissions footprint, and the engineers she’s working with
have taught her how to pitch sustainability initiatives to executives,
highlighting positive impacts on the bottom line. The summer that started out
as a massive disappointment, she said, has actually shown her new,
unconventional ways that she might make a difference in the world. “Cement
production makes up five percent of all carbon emissions, but no one is
working in that area because it’s not sexy,” said Novitsky. “I’m starting to
think that’s a more effective way to have an actual impact on emissions.
There’s a million people in self-driving cars—who’s pioneering the heavy
industries that are a huge chunk of the problem?”

Novitsky is, at least for the time being—she’s staying on with Lineage
Logistics this fall, while taking Duke classes remotely from her home base in
Tahoe.

Now that the program has been around for a few years, its leaders are starting
to see usable data taken from focus groups and pre- and post-surveys completed
by DTech participants. ECE faculty member and DTech faculty director Shaundra
Daily said the data is encouraging and indicates that the program has been
effective. “Beyond making new peer connections through the program, almost all
of our students reported a transformation in their view of what networking is
and how it can be beneficial to their professional development,” said Daily.
“It was clear that our students came to value their peers and coworkers as an
important part of a professional network that can be useful in their future
career exploration.” Daily recently presented the data virtually at the
American Society for Engineering Education’s national conference.

> “We've only begun to see the impact this can have on diversity and
> innovation at Duke and beyond."
>
> AMY ARNOLD, DTech ExecutiVe Director

“It's exciting to see the way the DTech network has grown since we started in
2016 with just 10 students. Today we have a vibrant community of hundreds of
students, alumni, corporate partners, and mentors all working together to
empower more women to thrive as leaders in tech,” said Arnold. “We've only
begun to see the impact this can have on diversity and innovation at Duke and
beyond."

More News From Duke Engineering

## Related News

August 27, 2018

### Strength in Numbers

October 25, 2017

### Duke Alumnus, Apple Innovator Eddy Cue Helps Promote DTech Program

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

