

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# From the Lab, the First Cartilage-Mimicking Gel That's Strong Enough for
Knees

June 26, 2020 | by Robin Smith

Cartilage provides a combination of cushiony-yet-strong that hydrogels haven't
been able to match, until now

_FromDuke Today  
_

The thin, slippery layer of cartilage between the bones in the knee is magical
stuff: strong enough to withstand a person’s weight, but soft and supple
enough to cushion the joint against impact, over decades of repeat use. That
combination of soft-yet-strong has been hard to reproduce in the lab. But now,
Duke University researchers say they’ve created an experimental gel that’s the
first to match the strength and durability of the real thing.

The material may look like a distant cousin of Jell-O—which it is—but it’s
incredibly strong. It’s 60% water, but a single quarter-sized disc can bear
the weight of a 100-pound kettlebell without tearing or losing its shape.

Its developers say it’s the first hydrogel—materials made of water-absorbing
polymers—capable of withstanding tugging and heavy loads as well as human
cartilage, without wearing out over time.

Led by Duke chemistry and materials scientists Ben Wiley and Ken Gall, the
research could one day offer people with knee troubles a replacement for
damaged cartilage, and an alternative to the 600,000 knee replacement
surgeries performed in the U.S. each year.

A smooth rubbery tissue that covers the ends of bones and enables them to
glide smoothly against each other, cartilage helps absorb a huge amount of
force with every step—typically between two and three times your body weight.

However, cartilage also has limited ability to heal and repair itself. Once
worn by age, overuse or trauma it’s difficult to treat, said Gall, a professor
of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke.

For patients who want to avoid or postpone a knee replacement that may only
last 20 years, artificial cartilage can help. Hydrogels have been explored for
use as a cartilage substitute since the 1970s and are used in soft contact
lenses and disposable diapers. Researchers are attracted to these materials
because of their slippery, shock-absorbing properties and because they don’t
harm nearby cells. But until now they’ve proven too weak to be used in load-
bearing joints like the knee.

The Duke team set out to change that. “We set out to make the first hydrogel
that has the mechanical properties of cartilage,” said Wiley, a chemistry
professor at Duke.

The new hydrogel consists of two intertwined polymer networks: one made of
stretchy spaghetti-like strands and the other more rigid and basketlike, with
negative charges along their length. These are reinforced with a third
ingredient, a meshwork of cellulose fibers.

When the gel is stretched, the cellulose fibers resist pulling and help hold
the material together. And when it is squeezed, the negative charges along the
rigid polymer chains repel each other and stick to water, helping it spring
back to its original shape.

“Only this combination of all three components is both flexible and stiff and
therefore strong,” said co-author Feichen Yang, who earned a chemistry PhD in
Wiley’s lab.

When the researchers compared the resulting material to other hydrogels,
theirs was the only one that was as strong as cartilage under both squishing
and stretching.

In one experiment, the team subjected it to 100,000 cycles of repeat pulling,
and the material held up just as well as porous titanium used for bone
implants, “which exceeded our initial expectations,” said co-author William
Koshut, a PhD student in the Gall lab.

They also rubbed the new material against natural cartilage a million times.
They found that its smooth, slippery self-lubricating surface is as wear-
resistant as the real thing and four times more wear-resistant than synthetic
cartilage implants currently FDA-approved for use in the big toe.

Moving the material from the lab to the clinic would take another three years
at least, Wiley said. Initial safety tests suggest the material is nontoxic to
lab-grown cells. The next step is to design an implant that they can test in
sheep.

But the team says eventually the research could offer new options for people
with knee pain, and get them back to doing the things they love without the
long recovery times and limited lifetime associated with cartilage repair or
knee replacement surgery.

_This work was supported by Sparta Biomedical, a Paul M. Gross Fellowship, a
Marcus Hobbes Fellowship, and the Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility at
Duke._

_CITATION: "A Synthetic Hydrogel Composite with the Mechanical Behavior and
Durability of Cartilage," Feichen Yang, Jiacheng Zhao, William J. Koshut, John
Watt, Jonathan Riboh, Ken Gall, Benjamin J. Wiley. Advanced Functional
Materials, June 26, 2020. DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202003451_

## Related News

December 13, 2013

### Duke Engineers Make Strides Toward Artificial Cartilage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

