

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# CEE Bioaerosol Researcher Joins Epidemiology Team

April 10, 2020 | Miranda Volborth

Team seeks insights into SARS-CoV-2 virus transmission

We’ve been battling SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes COVID-19, for
months now, and it sometimes seems like we’re swinging in the dark. There’s
still so much we don’t know about the virus—including exactly how it spreads
from person to person.

But Duke teams are tackling that issue. One of them is led by Duke
epidemiologist Gregory Gray, who is using bioaerosol samplers around the beds
of patients infected with COVID-19 to collect the virus, testing the current
assumption that the virus normally doesn’t travel and remain infectious more
than six feet from a carrier.

Lucas Rocha-Melogno, a PhD candidate in the lab of civil and environmental
engineering professor Marc Deshusses, knew Gray from collaborating on his own
research. Rocha-Melogno studies how aerosolized pathogens are transmitted in
areas with poor sanitation. He had already traveled to his hometown of La Paz,
Bolivia, to sample bioaerosols next to an open sewer that collects the waste
of around a million people, and he intended to conduct the same type of
research in Malawi, in mid-April. When that trip was canceled, Rocha-Melogno,
like many researchers, was thrust into an unwelcome limbo.

Then came a phone call from Raquel Binder, a senior research scientist in
Gray’s lab. She invited Rocha-Melogno to join the Gray team; he has valuable
experience working with the same bioaerosol samplers they are using in their
current studies.

“It all happened really fast,” said Rocha-Melogno. “In a matter of days we had
to go through sampling training, phlebotomy training and numerous research
ethics and compliance training courses, and we had to write our standard
protocols.”

Changes in his personal life happened just as quickly. “I realized I couldn’t
stay in my apartment,” said Rocha-Melogno. “I was going to be exposed to the
virus, and I didn’t want to put anyone at risk. I had to move into the home of
one of my new teammates, and plan to live there until the end of May.”

He said he feels a mix of excitement and nervousness for what’s to come, and
appreciation for the people from around the world who have come together to
tackle a challenge unlike anything we’ve ever faced.

“I think the biggest lesson this brings to all of us is a sense of
responsibility and commitment; to be mindful about our actions and to re-
evaluate our priorities for when we go back to ‘normal’ life,” he said.

More News

## Related News

April 07, 2020

### ‘CovIdentify’ Pits Smartphones and Wearable Tech Against the Coronavirus

April 02, 2020

### Duke Leverages Cryo-Electron Microscope Facility in the Race for
Coronavirus Vaccine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

