

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# CEINT's French Connection

April 8, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Duke's Center for the Environmental Impact of NanoTechnology has had strong
international ties since its inception that continue to provide opportunities
to students and faculty alike

Perhaps it should come as no surprise that the acronym for the environmental
nanotechnology center headquartered at Duke is pronounced “saint.” After all,
the inspiration for the center struck while founder Mark Wiesner was on
sabbatical in France—a nation renowned for its cathedrals and pantheon of
saints—and the center maintains strong French ties to this day—ties that many
Duke students and faculty members are capitalizing on.

The Center for the Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT)
connects researchers from around the world in an effort to understand how the
numerous types of nanoparticles that are becoming a staple of modern
industrial practices and products will affect the environment. It is a
daunting task, as scientists are literally inventing the required research
techniques from scratch.

CEINT’s international ties date back to 1985 when Wiesner, the James L. Meriam
Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Duke, began a job with a
water treatment firm in Paris. While there, he met a researcher named Jean-
Yves Bottero, who soon took a post at a geosciences environmental laboratory
named Le Centre Européen de Recherche et d’Enseignement des Géosciences de
l’Environnement, otherwise known as CEREGE.

It was during a sabbatical visiting his friend at CEREGE in Aix-en-Provence
that Wiesner decided to try to put together a large environmental
nanotechnology research enterprise. So in 2008, when funding came through from
the National Science Foundation to tie six American universities together into
CEINT, he knew exactly who to call to collaborate with.

“CEREGE has a real specialty inthe nanoscale characterization of membranes,”
said Wiesner of his French colleagues. “While we are very good at the
engineering and modeling side of our research, their expertise and access to
particle accelerator beamlines throughout Europe has been invaluable.”

The mutually beneficial collaboration between CEINT and CEREGE has led to a
steady stream of intellectual talent flowing between the two. For example,
Jerome Rose, who was a former postdoc in Wiesner’s lab at Duke, now leads the
CEREGE group that CEINT works with most often. Melanie Auffan, another of
Wiesner’s former postdocs, also works at CEREGE and is on the CEINT steering
committee. Both also have adjunct faculty status at Duke, as does Bottero, who
leads a CEINT-sized research center based at the CEREGE that is examining the
release of nanomaterials to the environment from commercial products.

This continual give-and-take between faculty has led to many opportunities for
students at Duke. Two Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) student
slots—10-week-long summer research internships funded by the National Science
Foundation—are reserved for CEINT students every year, many of which have been
filled by Duke undergraduates. And two Pratt graduate students have snagged
prestigious Chateaubriand Fellowships. These extremely competitive awards are
given by the French government for American graduate students to study in
France—an experience that culminates with the awarding of dual doctoral
degrees, one American and one French.

Lauren Barton traveled to the University of Aix-Marseille—one of the CEREGE
member institutions—two years ago to study how nanoparticles might change in
composition during wastewater treatment practices before entering the
environment and will graduate in 2014. Meanwhile, Amalia Turner is currently
at the same institution working to understand how plants take up nanoparticles
in the environment.

“You need a certain level of trust between institutions to make a program like
the Chateaubriand Fellowship work,” said Wiesner. “You have to know that
you’re not sacrificing quality. And once you have that level of trust, you can
cut through a lot of barriers that might exist otherwise.

“We really are joined at the hip. Both institutions have a lot of people
traveling back and forth. A great way to have a good collaboration is to start
with two strong partners, and they’re really strong.”

According to Wiesner, most of the students in his group, both undergraduates
and graduates, spend some time in France, some of whom travel as part of the
Partnerships for International Research and Education (PIRE) program funded by
the National Science Foundation. And that’s a tradition that he expects to
continue and grow. As former students graduate and form their own research
teams, they will have the connections needed to share their international
experience with their own future students.

It’s an experience and collaboration that Wiesner believes is crucial to
future research endeavors addressing global grand challenges.

“We’re working on the environment, and the environment is international,” he
said, also noting that he has sent students to collaborators in Singapore and
Istanbul. “I think learning to work in international research teams is the
bread and butter of the environmental field, and, more broadly, the future of
how research and business will work in science and engineering.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

