

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ECE Faculty Awarded for Impact on Industry

July 10, 2018

Recognitions underline the transformation of Duke ECE into a powerhouse in
advanced electronic design

Two faculty members in Duke Engineering’s Electrical and Computer Engineering
(ECE) Department are having large impacts in the industrial sector and have
recently received recognition for their efforts.

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, chair of the ECE department, recently received the
Semiconductor Research Corporation 2018 Technical Excellence Award.
Established in 1991, the award serves as an incentive and recognition program
that is shared equally among key contributors for innovative technology that
significantly enhances the productivity/competitiveness of the semiconductor
industry. Chakrabarty was cited specifically for pioneering solutions to the
test challenges for 3D integrated circuits, which are just beginning to
realize their potential for increasing computational density in modern
integrated circuits.

Within a few weeks of Chakrabarty winning this award, Xin Li received the
Cadence Design Systems Academic Collaboration Award at the 2018 Design
Automation Conference. The award recognizes university collaborators whose
electronic design automation research has significantly impacted commercial
technology advancement.

Xin received this award in recognition of his decade-long collaboration with
Cadence, whose goal is to enable electronic systems and semiconductor
companies to create innovative products that transform the way people live,
work and play. Xin’s collaboration with the company includes work on
statistical circuit analysis and failure rate prediction, which received the
IEEE Donald O. Pederson Best Paper Award, The technology has been integrated
into the commercial product Virtuoso ADE GXL, which provides a virtual way for
engineers to complete thorough explorations and validations of a design.

“My work with Cadence is a great example of how an academic university and an
industrial company can work together to deliver innovative solutions for one
of the most challenging engineering problems,” said Xin.

“Both of these awards include industry impact as a key criterion,” said
Chakrabarty. “Duke’s ECE Department is now a powerhouse in advanced electronic
design, which spans hardware systems for artificial intelligence and machine
learning.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

