

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Yiran Chen Named a Fellow of IEEE

November 30, 2017

Chen was cited for his contributions to spintronic memory

Yiran Chen, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke
University, has been elected a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) for his contributions to spintronic memory.

Chen is a new faculty member at Duke who started his position in January 2017
after serving as the Bicentennial Alumni Faculty Fellow and co-director of the
Evolutionary Intelligence Lab in the Pitt Electrical and Computer Engineering
Department. His research focuses on finding ways to create computer memory
systems that do not rely on electrons to surpass the physical density
limitations imposed by the technology and better serve modern computing
systems including both von Neumann and cognitive architectures.

One such approach called “spintronic memory” relies on using the quantum spin
of electrons to store information. Such technology offers better scalability,
lower power consumption and faster performance. For example, Chen says, you
could potentially back up your entire computer in a few milliseconds and have
its memory remain reliable for months or years at a time.

The IEEE Grade of Fellow is conferred by the IEEE Board of Directors upon a
person with an outstanding record of accomplishments in any of the IEEE fields
of interest. The total number selected in any one year cannot exceed one-tenth
of one- percent of the total voting membership. IEEE Fellow is the highest
grade of membership and is recognized by the technical community as a
prestigious honor and an important career achievement.

The IEEE is the world’s leading professional association for advancing
technology for humanity. Through its 400,000 plus members in 160 countries,
the association is a leading authority on a wide variety of areas ranging from
aerospace systems, computers and telecommunications to biomedical engineering,
electric power and consumer electronics.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

