

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chilkoti Reappointed Chair of Duke BME

July 27, 2017

Plans to build on the department’s efforts to recruit exceptional junior and
senior faculty while creating a close-knit culture

Ashutosh Chilkoti has been reappointed as chair of Duke’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering (BME), and will hold a new five-year term through June
2022.

Chilkoti has served as chair of Duke BME since August 2014, leading the
department through a period of continued growth and development. In the coming
years, Chilkoti plans to build on the department’s efforts to recruit
exceptional junior and senior faculty while creating a close-knit culture that
provides the support necessary for them to excel.

“Tosh Chilkoti is an accomplished scholar, inventor and prolific scientist who
ranks amongst the best-known biomedical engineers in the country,” said Ravi
Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering, in announcing the
appointment. “As chair, Tosh has hired amazing faculty, built community within
BME, and embraced design and entrepreneurship as signature aspects of our BME
program at all levels. I’m pleased that he has agreed to serve another term as
the leader of one of Duke University’s signature programs.”

Long ranked among the top biomedical engineering departments in the nation by
_U.S. News & World Report_, Duke BME is the school’s largest engineering
department. In the past three years, the department has expanded its tenure-
track faculty by nearly 15 percent to 34, while research expenditures have
increased by nearly 30 percent to $22 million in FY2016.

In his next term as chair, Chilkoti plans to continue his focus on hiring
junior faculty that immediately contribute to the department as well as
competing with the nation’s best engineering schools for exceptional senior
faculty. He wants to continue to build community through the initiatives he
has started, such as regular gatherings, celebrating accomplishments and
working to improve mentoring skills.

“The most important things to a department are its people and its culture. As
a department grows, there’s a sort of centrifugal force that tends to separate
faculty members into groups,” said Chilkoti. “I’ve worked to start a number of
small initiatives that have brought the department into a cohesive team and
created an environment that supports success.”

Chilkoti also plans to support the translation of research discoveries into
entrepreneurial endeavors by opening a Duke BME start-up incubator in the
Chesterfield Building in downtown Durham. The incubator will provide
laboratory and office space to students, faculty and alumni when it launches
early next year.

Chilkoti sees such efforts as an extension of Duke’s mission of providing
service to society, as the most powerful way to affect people’s lives is
through new products.

“There comes a time in everyone’s career where, if you’re able to give back to
the people who have helped you succeed, you should,” said Chilkoti, who joined
Duke’s faculty more than two decades ago. “In the past three years, there have
been a lot of changes and we have built positive momentum. I want to continue
that by providing stability and completing some of my initiatives in my second
term.”

Chilkoti, the Theo Kaganov Professor of Biomedical Engineering and professor
in Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science and Chemistry, is an
internationally recognized biomedical engineer and one of the most-cited
researchers in materials science and engineering.

Elected to the National Academy of Inventors in 2016, he is a serial
entrepreneur who has launched four companies based on his work, bringing to
market innovations such as an insulin delivery system for diabetics that
reduces injections from once a day to once a week, a point-of-care
immunoassay, and novel nanoparticle delivery systems for cancer therapies.

Among Chilkoti’s additional recent honors are the Pritzker Distinguished
Lectureship Award from the Biomedical Engineering Society, the Clemson Award
for Contributions to the Literature from the Society for Biomaterials, and the
Humboldt Senior Researcher Award from the Alexander Von Humboldt Foundation.

“The best thing about Duke BME are the people – the students, staff and
faculty,” said Chilkoti. “It’s a great place to work because everyone takes a
lot of pride in their teaching and research efforts, and I want to help make
it even better.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

