

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineers Join National Center on Emerging Energy Materials

August 21, 2018

Three Duke faculty members will work to develop new hybrid organic-inorganic
semiconductors for novel energy applications

Three Duke University engineers have been tapped to join a new U.S. Department
of Energy research center aimed at exploring novel uses and properties of an
exciting emerging class of materials known as hybrid organic-inorganic
semiconductors (HOIS).

One specific class of HOIS called perovskites are materials that—with the
right combination of elements—have a crystalline structure that makes them
particularly well-suited for light-based applications. Their ability to absorb
light and transfer its energy efficiently makes them a common target for
researchers developing new types of solar cells, for example.

But those most familiar with perovskites believe that they—and the much
broader category of HOIS—may be useful for a much wider range of applications.
Backed by the Department of Energy (DOE), 16 of these researchers are banding
together into the new Center for Hybrid Organic-Inorganic Semiconductors for
Energy (CHOISE). Their goal is to better understand and control the emergent
phenomena of spin, charge, and light/matter interactions in HOIS, potentially
unlocking new energy technologies.

> “NREL is the country’s flagship laboratory for renewable energy research.
> Not only will the research be incredibly interesting, this center will also
> provide opportunities for Duke faculty and students alike to connect with
> this valuable resource for energy research.”

Led by researchers at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) in
Golden, Colorado, the new center will be backed by $11.75 million over the
next four years through the DOE’s Energy Frontier Research Centers (EFRC)
program. The EFRC program is designed to bring together researchers from
multiple disciplines and institutions and combine them into highly productive
teams. CHOISE’s researchers come from a range of institutions—Duke University,
the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, the University of Utah, SLAC
National Accelerator Laboratory, the University of Toledo, San Diego State
University and the University of Chicago.

“Perovskites have already shown success in the solar energy sector, and this
center is a clear statement of their promise to change the paradigm for
applications beyond that,” said David Mitzi, the Simon Family Professor of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University. “For example,
‘spintronic’ devices, light-emitting devices and optical switching.”

The new center will have four thrust areas—one for each of three focus areas
(controlling spin degrees of freedom, controlling light-matter interaction and
harnessing charge carrier degrees of freedom—and another dedicated to
crystalline HOIS design and synthesis, which underpins each of the other
three. With almost three decades’ worth of experience working with hybrid
perovskites, Mitzi will serve as a lead for the latter. Joining him from Duke
are Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, professor of electrical and computer engineering,
and Volker Blum, associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science.

Stiff-Roberts has spent the past decade developing a technique called RIR-
MAPLE capable of producing thin-film perovskites with delicate organic
components that other approaches destroy. Blum heads the "Ab initio materials
simulations" group at Duke focusing on building computational molecular models
from first principles.

“NREL is the country’s flagship laboratory for renewable energy research,”
said Mitzi. “Not only will the research be incredibly interesting, this center
will also provide opportunities for Duke faculty and students alike to connect
with this valuable resource for energy research.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

