

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Christensen Family Gift Endows Center for Student Design Education at Duke

September 28, 2021 | Mark Schreiner

Naming honors gift by the family of Clayton Christensen, the management
thinker who coined ‘disruptive innovation’

The Christensen Family Center for Innovation in Duke University’s new
Wilkinson Building provides state-of-the-art spaces and educational programs
to teach students design skills through hands-on projects connected to the
biggest challenges facing humanity and the planet.

The center’s name honors the family of Clayton Christensen in recognition of
its $5 million gift to the Pratt School of Engineering. The gift provides
perpetual support for the design center, and support for a growing series of
immersive design programs focused on solving challenges in health care,
climate change and other global issues.

### A New View on Innovation

The Christensen Family Center for Innovation is home to a bold effort to
discover best practices that could make the difficult and often lonely process
of entrepreneurship **faster, cheaper, and easier to learn**.

Read about it »

“Duke Engineering is honored by this visionary gift from the Christensen
family, which has such strong ties to Duke and to thought leadership in
innovation,” said Jeff Glass, interim dean of the Pratt School of Engineering.
“The Christensen Family Center for Innovation is more than a space in which
students will make things. It is a place where student teams will learn
engineering design skills and gain experience by taking on authentic, real-
world challenges and the big, important issues.”

Physically, the Christensen Family Center for Innovation has perhaps the
highest visibility of any space in the Wilkinson Building. The center is
located on the first floor by the main entrance, and includes:

  * A maker space “garage lab”
  * Prototyping and finishing studio
  * Meeting and office space

A home for design programs

The Christensen Family Center will be home to design programs aimed at areas
of critical interest, such as health care, defense and climate change. The
first launched was Duke Design Health in fall 2018.

Design Health assembles teams of undergraduate, graduate and professional
degree students from across Duke’s schools of engineering, medicine, nursing,
arts and sciences, and business.

Through a partnership with the Duke School of Medicine, the teams discover
needs and problems in health care through immersion in clinical settings, and
then work through a structured process toward a designed solution.

Participants commit five to 10 hours of effort each week during the three-
semester program, and receive coaching from experts in medicine, product
design, entrepreneurship and engineering.

“The Christensen Family Center is exceptionally well-located,” said Eric S.
Richardson, associate professor of the practice of biomedical engineering and
Duke Design Health’s founder and director. “Not only is it convenient to the
engineering, medicine and arts and sciences facilities on campus, Duke’s
Innovation Co-Lab, which has additional design resources students can use, is
across the street, just steps away—making it an important physical part of
Duke’s growing design and innovation ecosystem.”

> “Innovation can truly change the world and have huge, positive impacts
> globally. We are honored to be part of what Duke and Duke Engineering are
> doing.”
>
> **Matt Christensen** | Civil Engineering graduate, Class of 2002

Duke Design Health has received attention for its work identifying pressing
needs and developing innovative and practical solutions for clinicians and
patients. In response to COVID-19, Richardson, fellow medical design experts
and Duke Engineering faculty members Paul Fearis and Joseph A. Knight co-led
an engineering response team that designed solutions to rapidly emerging needs
faced by Duke Health clinicians.

Similar programs are being prepared through Duke’s Engineering
Entrepreneurship initiative (EngEn) to focus on challenges such as climate
change and social justice. Also being created is an Open Design Studio
program, which will be based in the Christensen Center and offer courses and
programs aimed at co-creating solutions with people traditionally
underrepresented in design and decision-making processes.

“The Christensen Center is a resource for the whole university,” said Steve
McClelland, an entrepreneur and executive-in-residence with Duke Engineering
Entrepreneurship (EngEn). “The center will not only be a place where we teach
innovation skills, but a place where we learn how to do innovation better and
how to increase access to successful methods of innovation. We intend to share
what we learn across the entire Duke and Durham innovation community.”

McClelland and Donna Crenshaw, executive director of the MEDx initiative to
foster collaborations between Duke’s schools of medicine and engineering, are
planning out software that can collect and analyze data from projects
developed in the center. The vision is to uncover insights that could make the
innovation process more efficient.

A commitment to Duke

The Christensen family has a long association and commitment to Duke. Clayton
Christensen was a Harvard Business School professor and globally renowned
management thinker who died in 2020 at age 67. He coined the term “disruptive
innovation” and wrote and lectured widely on his ideas. Duke awarded him an
honorary doctorate in 2017.

His daughter Ann Christensen is a 2001 Duke economics, public policy and
political science graduate. Son Matt studied civil engineering and economics,
played on the Duke men’s basketball team, and graduated from Duke in 2002.

Matt Christensen is today a member of the Pratt School of Engineering’s
distinguished Board of Visitors.

“My family is grateful to have this opportunity to support Duke Engineering in
its groundbreaking efforts to prepare students to become successful, lifelong
innovators who address global challenges,” said Matt Christensen, CEO of Rose
Park Advisors, a Boston investment firm he co-founded with his father to apply
the concept of disruptive innovation to investing. “Innovation can truly
change the world and have huge, positive impacts globally. We are honored to
be part of what Duke and Duke Engineering are doing.”

More about the Christensen Family Center »

## Related News

September 28, 2021

### Christensen Family Center Is Home to a New View on Innovation

April 01, 2021

### The Wilkinson Building: Reimagining Engineering Education

September 23, 2020

### Duke Engineering’s New “EngEn” Accelerates the Impact of Tech-Based
Innovation

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

