

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Class of 2024 A. James Clark Scholars Arrive at Duke

August 31, 2020

Duke welcomed 10 outstanding first-year students from eight U.S. states and
Kenya to join its student body as A. James Clark Scholars

Duke's Pratt School of Engineering has welcomed 10 outstanding first-year
students from eight U.S. states and Nairobi, Kenya to join its student body as
A. James Clark Scholars.

The A. James Clark Scholars Program, funded through a $15 million investment
from the A. James & Alice B. Clark Foundation, expands access to Duke's
nationally recognized engineering education and seeks to create a new
generation of engineering leaders with a focus on engineering, business,
leadership and community service.

Each year, Clark Scholars are selected based on financial need, academic
accomplishment, engagement in engineering and leadership skills. The incoming
Class of 2024 students is the third group of A. James Clark Scholars at Duke.

> "What distinguishes leaders from everyone else isn't their ability to
> propose solutions, but the capability and grit to follow through with them."
>
> **Karrissa Guerrero**  
>  A. James CLaRk Scholar at Duke

As part of a rigorous application process, students were asked to write an
essay on a leadership challenge they tackled and what they learned.

"What distinguishes leaders from everyone else isn't their ability to propose
solutions, but the capability and grit to follow through with them," wrote
Karrissa Guerrero, who overcame personal fears to lead and grow a group for
LGBT students at her high school in California.

Robertson Waweru, born and raised in the lakeside city of Nakuru, Kenya,
explained how he used a design process to lead his friends in building a
rainwater collection system as a clean alternative to contaminated
neighborhood wells.

"Though I have yet to decide on a major, this sparked my love and curiosity
for the interplay between engineering and sustainable development—something I
am hoping to explore within the Clark Scholars Program," he wrote.

Over four years, each scholar receives support to help offset loans, work-
study and summer earnings requirements. This support allows each scholar to
participate in unpaid service, extracurricular activities, internships and the
creation of new ventures.

The program is a signature component of Duke Engineering's initiative to
encourage an entrepreneurial mindset among all its undergraduate students.

Scholars join classmates from engineering and across Duke in participating in
courses, workshops, grant competitions and other opportunities offered through
the Duke EngEn, the Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship program.

> The A. James Clark Scholars Program is a signature component of Duke
> Engineering's initiative to encourage an entrepreneurial mindset among all
> its undergraduate students.

Before the start of fall classes on Aug. 17, the 10 students completed an
additional four-day pre-orientation that included discussions and exercises
with Duke faculty and experts on building personal resilience and wellness and
understanding learning and leading styles. In response to pandemic concerns,
the pre-orientation was held virtually.

"We have an outstanding class once again this year," said William F. Walker,
director of the A. James Clark Scholars Program at Duke and the Mattson Family
Director of Entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering. "I look forward to working
with them and observing their growth in engineering leaders over their four
years at Duke."

The Class of 2024 Clark Scholars at Duke are:

  * Noah Fredericks—Pottsville, Pa.
  * Karrissa Guerrero—El Cajon, Calif.
  * Ezra Melaku—Matthews, N.C.
  * Alondra Oliveras—Bronx, N.Y.
  * Jack Rhodes—Purcellville, Va.
  * Carolina Rozzo—West Palm Beach, Fla.
  * Reyna Vrbensky—Crofton, Md.
  * Robertson Waweru—Nairobi, Kenya
  * Phillip Williams—Blakeslee, Pa.
  * Adam Yook—Flower Mound, Texas

Duke is a member of a Clark Scholars network that includes students from The
George Washington University, Georgia Tech, Johns Hopkins University, Penn
State, University of Maryland, University of Pennsylvania, Stevens Institute,
Vanderbilt University, University of Virginia and Virginia Tech.

## More

  * Find scholar bios at clarkscholars.duke.edu/meet-our-scholars
  * Learn more about how Duke prepares engineers who are inspired and equipped
    to solve complex societal problems at pratt.duke.edu/inspiring
  * Visit the A. James & Alice B. Clark Foundation at clarkfoundationdc.org

## Related News

September 12, 2019

### Class of 2023 A. James Clark Scholars Arrive at Duke

August 20, 2018

### 10 of Nation's Brightest College-Bound Students Selected as Inaugural A.
James Clark Scholars at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

