

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Co-Designing Tomorrow's Computers

September 27, 2021

AI expert Hai "Helen" Li discusses how her lab designs new computer
technologies, including personalized devices based on personalized algorithms

## 1\. Machine learning is an area that has many, many applications, from
image and speech recognition to medical pathology. What does your work focus
on? Can you tell us about a couple of projects you’re working on right now?

My broad research interest is hardware and software co-design to enable small,
fast and efficient computing systems. Here’s what I mean by co-design: It used
to be that engineers designed the hardware for a computer, and computer
scientists designed the software. Everything was quite siloed. But the new
trend is to design the entire stack—so that as you design the software, you’re
considering what hardware resources you have, and how much of those resources
you want to use.

For example, image classification can be performed differently on a phone than
on a laptop, because they have different capabilities. So when we design the
software, we can take into account how exactly the task will be accomplished,
and make the operation simpler and more power-efficient, or give it more power
and higher performance if the system will allow it. We’re really tailoring the
computing power to the particular situation. Eventually, we would like to hand
every individual a personalized device that uses personalized algorithms,
based on their own use patterns, to exactly fulfill their needs. The growing
field of edge computing has some of the same aims: to make better overall
models from large datasets, but to tailor devices to the individual user.

**Machine learning:** the use and development of computer systems that are
able to learn and adapt by using algorithms to analyze and draw inferences
from patterns in data

Another area I work in is designing new computer memory structures. Memory is
a storage system. You can imagine information stored like shoes, in rows of
shoeboxes, in a warehouse. But most of the shoeboxes have not yet been filled
with shoes—out of 100 shoeboxes, let’s say only four contain the shoes you’re
looking for, and those shoes are on different rows, at different ends of the
warehouse. You have to make four trips to retrieve the shoes you’re looking
for. Wouldn’t it be much quicker and more efficient to put all of those pairs
of shoes together in one spot, and ignore all the other empty boxes? That’s
obviously a simplification, but it hints at the work we do in optimizing
memory structure and operations.

> "Ultimately, we anticipate systems that, like our brains, can adapt,
> recognize nuances and teach themselves as they work. It is an elegant,
> organic and beautiful way to think."
>
> HAI LI, CLARE BOOTHE LUCE PROFESSOR OF ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING

Another one of my major research focuses in the past ten years is neuromorphic
computing. Neuromorphic computing is a new way of designing computing systems
by mimicking human brain structure and operations. Ultimately, we anticipate
systems that, like our brains, can adapt, recognize nuances and teach
themselves as they work. It is an elegant, organic and beautiful way to think.
Because brains are so different from today’s microprocessors, we must rethink
and reconstruct the entire design philosophy and seek new technologies to
support it.

**Neuromorphic computing:** an approach to computing that takes inspiration
from the way the human brain recognizes and sorts information

## 2\. How is your work influencing the field?

Our team is among the first to introduce hardware considerations to accelerate
deep learning reserch, thereby bridging the gap between the hardware and
machine learning communities. For example, our NeurIPS’16 paper on structured
sparsity learning regularized the data structure during neural network
training to optimize the memory-access pattern, so that we could speed up task
execution. (Think again about the shoeboxes. Execution speedup, or retrieving
the correct information, can be achieved by putting all the filled boxes
together.) The structured sparsity concept has been widely recognized and
adopted by industries such as Nvidia, Intel, and Facebook, as well as
academia.

## 3\. AI/ML is a wildly popular area of study. How has Duke ECE expanded its
offerings so that students have more opportunities for learning in this field?

Duke ECE offers a minor in ML/AI, which provides undergraduates with not only
an understanding of the core concepts of ML and AI, but also rigorous and
coherent exposure to both fundamental theories and applications. In addition,
ECE has recently initialized many new courses from AI/ML fundamentals:

  * ECE 685: Introduction to Deep Learning, by Vahid Tarokh
  * ECE 687: Theory and Algorithms for Machine Learning, by Cynthia Rudin
  * ECE 660: Computer Engineering, Machine Learning and Deep Neural Nets, by
    myself and Yiran Chen, and
  * ECE 590: Machine Learning in Adversarial Settings by Neil Gong.

Students can also learn about use cases in various applications, with classes
including:

  * ECE 590: Human Element in Cybersecurity, by Missy Cummings, or
  * ECE 590: Reinforcement Learning at Scale by Henry Pfister and Jay Hineman.

These special topics courses change, so there are frequently new subjects to
explore. We have also been working to integrate more AI/ML components into EGR
101: Engineering Fundamentals, as well as senior capstone projects.

**Edge computing:** Bringing computation and data storage closer to the data’s
origin, to increase speed and allow for user customization

## 4\. Together with Professor Yiran Chen,  you run a large and very
productive lab, which is now located in the Wilkinson Building. What is the
lab ecosystem like? What kinds of projects do undergraduates work on, and are
they mentored by graduate students?

The research in our lab covers a broad range in computer engineering, so we’ve
formed several study groups led by senior PhD students. We always look for
self-motivated and capable undergraduate students to work closely with
graduate students, explore technical research and brainstorm new ideas. With
the graduate students’ mentoring, undergraduates develop valuable hands-on
skills.

## 5.What is your favorite thing about the Duke ECE community?

Every faculty member in Duke ECE is singular and exceptional. We don’t have
the size of some other ECE departments in other schools, but our productivity
and the impact of our research work is outstanding.

I like that our faculty members work closely with other departments and that
ECE serves as a meeting place for the applied sciences at Duke. It really is a
great place for students who are interested in research studies on electrical
and computing engineering in conjunction with other important application
domains, such as health data analysis, business and law. I’m very proud to be
here and to be a part of it.

Learn more About AI/ML Research at Duke

## Related News

July 26, 2021

### Catching Waves

June 21, 2021

### Higher Efficiency, Longer Lives

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

