

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cohort Community Initiative Builds Connections for Pratt Master’s Students

February 4, 2020 | By Angus Bowers

Unable to connect to Duke in person, master’s students find connections and
commonality through the Cohort Community Initiative

It is an understatement to say that the COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound
impact on universities around the world this year. Like so many other graduate
programs in the United States and elsewhere, the Engineering Master's Program
at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering, which welcomes students from over 15
countries, was faced with a heavy challenge as the start of the Fall 2020
semester loomed. What steps could they take to create a sense of community for
incoming students who would not physically be in the same location—or even the
same time zone?

This dilemma is not one that Pratt took lightly. Their Engineering Master's
Programs are intense and challenging, as students have a short amount of time
to master difficult coursework, perform group project work, and build strong
networks with their peers and professors. Due to the intensity of the
programs, there is always a strong sense of cohort-building for any given
incoming class that occurs organically.

Without these organic opportunities, questions for the program loomed. How
could the Engineering Master's Program attempt to approximate that experience
to help these students—who have far less time than either undergraduates or
doctoral students—to build a community of support among their peers, and with
Pratt's staff and faculty, to make sure they could move swiftly to ensure
their success? That's where Pratt's CCI classes come in.

CCI stands for Cohort Community Initiative. Incoming master's students were
automatically registered in this course, in most cases with other students
from their program track. Careful thought was put into the design of the
course, including curriculum, class size and frequency of meetings to help
meet student needs as effectively as possible.

"The intent of the course was to offer a combination of services including
communications support; intercultural navigation support; career development;
resource alignment; diversity, equity, and inclusion learning opportunities;
and a community to engage with regularly," said Bridget Fletcher, director of
Graduate Communications and Intercultural Programs and originator of the CCI
course.

Although many of the master's students come from outside the United States,
the classes included all students to help integrate everyone, international or
domestic, into the Pratt community.

In the first week of classes, students were given the opportunity to name
their own cohort. This involved introducing a group of roughly 15 strangers
and inspiring them to work on a group identity project. The result was a cadre
of representative and creative names, such as The Logistical Enigmas (a class
formed by students whose schedule fit nowhere else), Starry Night Squad, The
X-MEM (Master of Engineering Management), CEE's Get Degrees (Civil and
Environmental Engineering), and InFINity (Financial Technology). Through this
initial activity, groups began to think of themselves as a cohort by showing
familiarity and cohesion.

From there out, the CCI course unfolded with a schedule of topics covered in a
weekly meeting, which allowed students to learn more about making the most of
remote learning, accessing library services and interacting virtually with
faculty. These meetings also covered a range of professional skills useful for
graduate school and career planning, such as communicating more clearly,
better understanding their own attributes and learning how to negotiate for
themselves.

Pratt's administrators responded to the CCI model and its deployment in a
positive way. Leaders there were concerned that student experience in this
remote setting not be diminished in any aspect in comparison to any other
year. As student feedback started to roll in, the administration was excited
to hear that the response from students was also positive.

Not only did administrators want to create an environment where students could
learn and perform their best, they also wanted students to feel satisfaction
in knowing they made the right choice to embark on an engineering degree at
Duke. In addition to the topics covered, there were also visits by director of
master's studies and/or master's coordinators from various departments. This
helped provide a forum for the cohorts to interact with the people running
their program and to forge relationships with them so that they felt less
trepidation in asking questions.

> "Being that we are operating virtually this semester, having time to meet
> with classmates outside of academic work was a nice addition to each week."

Of noteworthy interest, the course also helped students focus on how to
develop themselves, both academically and personally. In addition to tips on
time management and keeping themselves organized, students were also
introduced to the benefits of meditation and how to use their own
parasympathetic nervous system response to shut down anxiety. Additionally,
students were introduced to the various supports Duke University has in place
to help students maintain good mental health in this time of uncertainty and
isolation.

Both the creator and facilitators of the course said that one of the best
aspects of the course was the regular exchange of emails with students. This
component was designed to be the only real homework required. Facilitators
sent an email prompt to their sections, and students had to respond either by
using text or an image to sum up their reaction or situation. In many of these
exchanges, students who were loath to speak up in class would open up about
academic and non-academic concerns alike.

"This interaction was much like the way students often arrive early or stay
after class so they can ask a question," said Fletcher. "This email exchange
was an unexpected way for that type of interaction to happen remotely."

It is worth noting that the CCI creator, facilitators and students all felt
this was a very useful interaction that added to the success of the course,
giving a private space to address concerns, fears and hopes, which were met
with support and guidance.

When asked about the experience of teaching a CCI course, one instructor,
Marcie Pachino said, "It was definitely a success. All first-year master's
students had a common, personalized experience. Our team now knows an entire
cohort of students. And each student now has a strong connection to one of us.
Students made connections with each other that they otherwise wouldn't have
had a chance to do under the current remote learning set-up."

The experience was a success. The response from both domestic and
international students was largely positive, in spite of the fact that
instructors and students alike missed the in-person aspect of classes. Most
students were happy to work on professional skills, and the preponderance of
participants appreciated the more casual way to relax and de-stress while
talking to people in their cohort outside of highly content-focused
engineering classes.

One student stated, "Being that we are operating virtually this semester,
having time to meet with classmates outside of academic work was a nice
addition to each week." Another added, "It allowed me to spend time with a
consistent group of people. In other words, it provided consistency and
connection."

A fear in the mind of those running the cohort community initiative was that
students would not want to engage or would not recognize the utility of this
course and see it as another box to tick each week, but one student addressed
those fears by saying, "I found the course very enjoyable. I was skeptical in
the beginning, but I was brought around by it mid-way through."

This was exactly the desired outcome for the CCI course. "When the world had
to move online last spring, things changed drastically," said Fletcher. "It
was disorienting and hard to adjust to this completely different way of
working and being. When I thought about how hard it was for me, I started to
really think about how hard this would be for students, especially students
outside the US. I wanted to create a support system for them that was
practical and authentic with a 'home base' feel. The cohort model made great
sense for all of these reasons and some logistical ones too. It felt like the
right way to give the students a core group they could count on and easy
access to a staff member that could unlock a lot of the mystery of Duke—a
place they would normally be able to explore on their own."

While everyone in the Pratt community looks forward to being able to return to
in-person classes when herd immunity has been achieved, the Cohort Community
Initiative has been a dynamic response to the need for connection in what is a
very distanced time. In spite of all the challenges of online learning, the
incoming class of Engineering Master's students were immediately welcomed and
given a sense of belonging, which is crucial to a successful graduate school
experience.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

