

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Connected Car Technology Returns Home with Proud Parent

March 10, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Alumnus Nathan Kundtz returns to campus with a car demonstrating breakthrough
satellite technology based on Duke metamaterials research

The future of mobile satellite communications recently rolled through the
engineering quad on Duke’s campus. Dubbed the “mTenna,” the flat device is
about the size of your hand and can connect with satellites in any direction
while on the move, providing internet connections at speeds capable of
handling a terabyte of data per month.

For anyone who has ever seen the giant satellite dishes controlled by heavy
machinery perched atop large boats, the upside of the sleek new technology is
immediately obvious. But besides maritime applications, the mTenna could also
provide much faster internet connections to airplane passengers—or passengers
in your own back seat.

The latter is how the prototype device made its way to campus—in the roof of a
Toyota Highlander, as the so-called “connected car” made its way across the
country on a publicity tour. The stop also brought the technology’s inventor
back to the place where it all started.

Nathan Kundtz, founder and CEO of Kymeta, the company producing the mTenna,
developed the technology while completing his doctorate in the laboratory of
metamaterials pioneer David Smith, professor and chair of the electrical and
computer engineering department at Duke. (Smith is now a strategic advisor to
Kymeta.)

Metamaterials are the combination of natural materials in repeating patterns
to achieve unnatural properties. They are also what allow the mTenna to obtain
signal from any direction without reorienting the device itself and to send
and receive data simultaneously.

The mentor and mentee were joined for a presentation about the technology and
a discussion about innovation at Duke by Lawrence Carin, vice provost for
research at Duke, and George Truskey, interim dean of Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering.

“What we’re doing isn’t terribly ambitious—we’re just looking to revolutionize
wireless communications,” joked Kundtz at the start of his talk. “If you’ve
seen the movie “The Martian,” there’s a scene where Matt Damon is hit by a
huge satellite dish during a wind storm. Clearly we have a different view of
the future.”

While not commercially available yet, Kundtz’s device is well on its way to
market. The mTenna technology can be manufactured by the same plants making
LCD televisions, and Kymeta has already entered an agreement with Sharp for
production, as well as with Toyota to begin integration into future car
models.

After describing the emerging technology, the group talked about the licensing
process with Intellectual Ventures and the culture of innovation at Duke that
helped move the process forward. The panel also praised the partnership and
years of cooperation for laying the groundwork for subsequent licensing
negotiations to be quickly and easily finished.

“This story represents everything we hope to achieve. Unbelievable research, a
PhD student going into a leadership role and unbelievable technology that is
on a pathway to transforming lives of people,” said Carin. “This is what it’s
about. Our goal is to make this process happen over and over again.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

