

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 'Covidentify' Adapts to Address a Changing Pandemic

June 12, 2020

Smart watch study expands by providing devices in underserved areas

Researchers at Duke University are expanding a recent study intended to help
identify the symptoms of COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel
coronavirus. This expanded effort will help the team establish a more
comprehensive method of early-symptom detection and provide more information
about how the virus can spread through a community.

Originally launched on April 2, 2020, CovIdentify was designed to explore how
data collected by smartphones, Apple Watches and other smartwatches could help
determine whether or not device users have COVID-19. The project, led by
assistant professor of biomedical engineering Jessilyn Dunn, Ryan Shaw, an
associate professor of nursing and director of the Health Innovation Lab, and
other collaborators in Duke Health and MEDx (Medicine + Engineering at Duke),
explores how biometric information, like sleep schedules, oxygen levels,
activity levels and heart rate, can help indicate early symptoms of COVID-19.

In the expanded phase of their study, the team will launch an iOS application
and send devices to target populations and underserved communities that are at
the highest risk of contracting the coronavirus. They have also established
formal partnerships with Garmin and Fitbit, to expand the kinds of devices
available for the study.

“Our team recognized that COVID-19 was going to be a long-term health care
problem, and we knew that wearable devices and smartphones would be a good way
to develop digital biomarkers that could determine a COVID-19 infection,” said
Shaw. “One of our goals is to expand our data collection capabilities, which
will increase our ability to differentiate the COVID-19 infection from other
illnesses. This differentiation is going to be key, as we expect to see waves
of resurgence pop up as the country opens back up, and some of these flare-ups
may coincide with flu season.”

Dunn and her team have noted that the coronavirus has had a disproportionate
effect on underserved communities, minorities and people with chronic
illnesses like diabetes and hypertension. Working with collaborators Chris
Woods, MD, the associate director of the Duke Center for Applied Genomics and
Precision Medicine, and Geoffrey Ginsburg, the director of MEDx, the team
plans to target and collect more comprehensive biometric data from these
communities.

“We’re seeing that underrepresented minorities are at a much greater risk of
both contracting COVID-19 and developing a more severe illness, so it’s
important that we explore what biometric factors may contribute to that risk,”
said Shaw.

In the first phase of CovIdentfy, the team launched the covidentify.org
website, which allows participants to input their relevant demographics and
medical information. Delivered via text or email, the daily survey asks
participants about people they’ve been in contact with and about specific
symptoms if they feel sick. Participants are also asked to share biometric
data from their smartphones and smartwatches. The team then matches the
biometric data with answers from the survey questions to use the relationship
between reported symptoms and any changes in the biometric data to develop
biomarkers.

“The iOS app will ideally simplify the sign up and survey process, and it
expands the tools we can work with,” said Dunn. “The CovIdentify app will be
able to pull data from any device that syncs with the Apple Healthkit
application, which is a standard app on all iPhones.”

To ensure that they’re also pulling data from a variety of sources and
communities, the team developed a plan to target recruitment of people that
have a higher risk of contracting the disease, including delivery drivers,
grocery store workers, hospital cleaning and cafeteria staff and nurse aids.
They are also exploring how they can deploy watches in high-density housing
like nursing homes, college dorms, military barracks and homeless shelters.

Study sponsors are supplying devices to people in these key populations who
would not otherwise be able to afford a wearable device. The team is also
ramping up their targeting efforts in locations outside of the United States
where viral hotspots have been identified.

“We’ve put together targeted social media advertising for the study, which is
deployed in cities around the globe that report an increase in positive
cases,” said Dunn. “This is a global pandemic, so it’s important that we can
we can work with data collected from around the world to begin developing
comprehensive diagnostic solutions and manage outbreaks.”

Initially, CovIdentify was projected to run through the end of 2020, which
would allow the team to collect 12 months of historical data from the wearable
devices and six months of data going forward. With expanded support from Duke,
the project will now run through 2021.

“If CovIdentify is successful, it will be a non-invasive and accessible tool
that can help us control the spread of the coronavirus,” said Dunn. “This
expanded support brings this goal closer to becoming a reality, and we’re
grateful for the support from Duke and from our partners in industry.”

If you’re interested in participating in the program, you can sign up at
covidentify.org.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

