

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# COVID-19 Can Infect and Damage Human Kidney Cells

April 21, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Duke researchers showed that SARS-CoV-2 can infect kidney cells via multiple
binding sites and hijack the cell’s machinery to replicate, causing injury and
COVID-19-associated kidney disease

The virus that causes COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, can directly infect a specialized
type of kidney cell. The discovery helps explain why acute kidney injury is
one of the main complications observed in patients with severe COVID-19,
according to biomedical engineers and virologists at Duke University.

The research appeared online April 20 in the journal Frontiers in Cell and
Developmental Biology.

When COVID-19 began spreading across the globe in early 2020, physicians knew
that the virus primarily infected cells in the respiratory tract. But as the
case numbers began to grow, physicians were surprised to see that many
patients –– especially those with severe COVID-19 –– were also developing
injuries to their kidneys.

The issue came to Samira Musah’s attention when she attended a virtual
symposium in the spring of 2020. Musah, an assistant professor of biomedical
engineering and medicine at Duke, listened as physicians presented research
that described how patients who had never experienced any kidney-related
issues were developing kidney disease after getting sick with COVID-19.

“It was shocking to hear doctors describe how patients who were healthy
suddenly developed kidney injury and needed to go on dialysis after
contracting SARS-CoV-2,” said Musah. “It was clear that the virus was doing
something to the kidneys, but it was so early in the pandemic that nobody was
sure what was going on.”

In previous work, Musah and her team showed that they could guide human
induced pluripotent stem cells to develop and mature into functional
podocytes, which is a specific type of kidney cell that helps control the
removal of toxins and waste from the blood. Musah and Titilola Kalejaiye, a
postdoctoral fellow in the lab, wanted to see if they could use this model to
determine how and why SARS-CoV-2 was capable of damaging kidney cells.

As a proof of concept, Kalejaiye initially worked with a pseudovirus version
of SARS-CoV-2. These psuedoviruses are developed to mimic characteristics of
specific viruses but are incapable of producing replication-competent viral
particles, making them safe to use for broad research. After introducing the
pseudovirus into their podocyte cell model, Kalejaiye discovered that the
spike protein of the virus could directly bind to numerous receptors on the
surface of podocytes.

“We found that the virus was especially adept at binding to two key receptors
on the surface of the podocytes, and these receptors are abundant in these
kidney cells,” explained Kalejaiye, who is also the first author of the paper.
“There was a strong uptake of the virus initially, and we also found that when
you increased the dose of the virus, the uptake would increase even further.
The virus seemed to have a strong affinity for these kidney cells.”

To test their podocyte model with the real SARS-CoV-2 virus, Musah and
Kalejaiye teamed up with Maria Blasi, an assistant professor of medicine at
Duke and a researcher in the Duke Human Vaccine Institute. Before the
pandemic, Blasi was exploring how viruses, including HIV, infect and damage
another subset of kidney cells called renal tubular epithelial cells.

“It was a stroke of luck that we crossed paths at the faculty meeting we both
attended,” said Blasi. “Samira was looking for someone with experience
handling live viruses, and I was looking for a model of the podocytes that
Samira can make, so we decided to kill two birds with one stone.”

Just like with the pseudovirus, the team observed that the live version of the
virus had a strong affinity for podocytes. Once the virus infected the cells,
it damaged the podocytes, causing their long, finger-like structures, which
help filter blood, to retract and shrivel. If the injuries to the cells were
too severe, the podocytes would die.

“Beyond the structural damage, we saw that the virus could hijack the
machinery of the podocytes to produce additional viral particles that could
spread to infect additional cells,” Blasi said.

Now the team hopes to expand their work to study how the different variants of
SARS-CoV-2 behave in kidney cells. As variants of the virus have emerged,
kidney injuries are occurring less frequently. This has made the team question
how the new variants are changing and if they are becoming less capable of
infecting kidney cells.

“I think it’s remarkable that we went from being home and hearing the initial
reports from physicians to forming this collaboration virtually and having
these results on such a short timeline,” said Musah. “We had the right people
and the right tools at the right time. It’s been one of the most successful
collaborations of my relatively young lab, and I’m looking forward to
continuing this work.”

This work was supported by a Whitehead Scholarship in Biomedical Research, a
Chair’s Research Award from the Department of Medicine at Duke University, a
Duke MEDx Pilot Grant on Biomechanics in Injury or Injury Repair, a Burroughs
Welcome Fund PDEP Career Transition Ad Hoc Award, a Genentech Research Award,
and a George M. O’Brien Kidney Center Pilot Grant (P30 DK081943) awarded to
Musah. Blasi was supported by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive
and Kidney Diseases grant number R01DK130381. Work with live SARS-CoV-2
isolate was performed under Biosafety Level-3 (BSL3) in the Duke Regional
Biocontainment Laboratory (RBL), which received partial support for
construction from the National Institutes of Health, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases (UC6-AI058607, G20-AI167200).

CITATION: “SARS-CoV-2 Employ BSG/CD147 and ACE2 Receptors to Directly Infect
Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Kidney Podocytes,” Titilola
Dalejaiye, Rohan Bhattacharya, Morgan Burt, Tatianna Travieso, Arinze Okafor,
Xingrui Mou, Maria Blasi & Samira Musah. Frontiers in Cell and Developmental
Biology, April 20, 2022. DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2022.855340

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

