

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# CRISPR Brings Precise Control to Gene Expression

October 26, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Controlling genes using CRISPR shows high degree of specificity

Researchers have demonstrated the exceptional specificity of a new way to
switch sequences of the human genome on or off without editing the underlying
genetic code.

Originally discovered as an antiviral system in bacteria, CRISPR/Cas9 is one
of the hottest topics in genetic research today. By engineering a version of
that system, researchers can both edit DNA sequences and control which genes
are used.

Previous studies, however, showed that editing human DNA sequences with the
system is not always as precise as researchers would like. Those results
raised concerns about the use of CRISPR technology in studying human diseases.

As a potential solution, some researchers added more versatility to the system
by using CRISPR to target portions of DNA that control which genes are active.
But instead of using the genetic cutting tool Cas9 that is often employed,
they inactivated the cutting function of Cas9 and attached proteins that
control the packaging of the genome. By unraveling or tightly bundling these
regions of the genome, they could effectively turn them on and off.

While the technique had been shown to work well, whether or not it had off-
target effects had not been investigated. Now, a team of researchers from Duke
University have shown that these gene-controlling methods are capable of the
high degree of precision required for basic science and medical research.

The study appears online on October 26, 2015 in Nature Methods.

“The primary advantage of CRISPR over previous technologies is the ability to
use a genetic scalpel rather than a sledgehammer,” said Charles Gersbach,
associate professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University. “Many labs
across the world are using these tools on the assumption that they’re getting
specific effects, but there had not been a comprehensive analysis to prove it.
These experiments show exceptional specificity, demonstrating that the
technology is capable of targeting single sequences of the genome.”

The power to control the genome’s switches would be especially important for
studying and potentially treating human diseases such as cancer,
cardiovascular disease, neurodegenerative conditions and diabetes, which can
be driven by mutations in control regions of the genome. The hope is that
overriding one of these switches could uncover and fix the root causes of many
diseases. It could also help researchers understand and change how different
people respond to drugs.

But only if the CRISPR technique is specific enough.

Soon after CRISPR was first described for editing human genes, several papers
revealed that the technique can sometimes have off-target effects. This
presents problems for gene therapy treatments and fundamental science
projects, where researchers want to alter the function of specific genes
without causing unintended side effects

An alternative strategy was developed to switch on and off the genomic regions
that control when genes are used without modifying the DNA sequence at all. In
some cases, these switches can control several related genes at once, allowing
researchers to strike chords instead of individual notes.

“Looking at the specificity of these tools is technically very challenging,”
said Timothy Reddy, assistant professor of biostatistics and bioinformatics at
Duke. “Finding a change in sequence or gene activity is relatively
straightforward if you’re focusing on one concentrated area in the genome. But
looking at how turning off one enhancer switch affects the activity and
structure of the whole genome requires more specialized techniques.”

Gersbach turned to Reddy and colleague Gregory Crawford, who all work together
in adjacent laboratories and offices in Duke’s Center for Genomic and
Computational Biology, for help with these more specialized techniques.

Reddy has focused his career on investigating how gene switches work across
the human genome, how those switches differ between individuals and the
implications of these insights for human traits and diseases. Crawford,
associate professor of pediatrics, has spent more than a decade developing
techniques to identify control regions across the genome and how they vary
between cell types, during development or in response to drug treatment.

“Current methods for controlling gene switches, including drugs used in
clinical trials, change the activity of many switches across the genome
simultaneously, creating thousands of off-target effects,” said Crawford.
“What is desperately needed is a technology for manipulating one element at a
time.”

It fell to Pratiksha Thakore, a PhD student in Gersbach’s lab, to integrate
the expertise of all three laboratories for studying the specificity of CRISPR
in controlling these switches. While the results can’t prove that every
experiment will have the same high level of precision, it provides a blueprint
for researchers to assess these effects.

“By integrating genomics and genome engineering, we have developed a method to
comprehensively interrogate how this genetic silencing system works and also
suggested ways the technology can be used in the future,” said Thakore. “We
also learned some new things about gene regulation, and it turned out that in
this context CRISPR can achieve a much higher level of specificity than we
expected.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Roadmap
Epigenomics Project (R01DA036865) and NIH grants (U01HG007900, R21AR065956,
P30AR066527, DP2OD008586), the National Science Foundation (CBET-1151035) and
the American Heart Association (10SDG3060033).

###

CITATION: “Highly Specific Epigenome Editing by CRISPR/Cas9 Repressors for
Silencing of Distal Regulatory Elements.” Pratiksha I. Thakore, Anthony M.
D’Ippolito, Lingyun Song, Alexias Safi , Nishkala K. Shivakumar, Ami M.
Kabadi, Timothy E. Reddy, Gregory E. Crawford, Charles A. Gersbach. Nature
Methods, 2015. DOI: 10.1038/nmeth.3630

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

