

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# CRISPR at a Tipping Point

October 21, 2021

A Q&A with Nobel Laureate Jennifer Doudna

This story was originally published on the Duke MEDx website.

In recent years, the term CRISPR has entered the popular lexicon, although
relatively few people could say what it stands for (“clustered regularly
interspaced short palindromic repeats”). CRISPR — more precisely known as
CRISPR-Cas9 — is a powerful genome editing technique that allows scientists to
make changes to specific DNA sequences and thereby alter gene function. The
CRISPR-Cas9 system has innumerable potential applications, ranging from
improving crop yields to treating human diseases. With CRISPR-Cas9, there is
the potential to modify genomic DNA in stem cells and even germline (sperm and
egg) cells to address intractable human diseases.

Jennifer Doudna, PhD, professor of chemistry, biochemistry, and molecular
biology at the University of California, Berkeley, is a leading figure in the
CRISPR revolution. Her fundamental work and leadership in developing the
CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing tool earned her and French microbiologist
Emmanuelle Charpentier the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2020.

Doudna is this year’s speaker for the MEDx Distinguished Lecture, an annual
seminar that highlights leaders who work at the interface of medicine and
engineering and have had positive impacts on human health. Former MEDx
Distinguished Lecture speakers have made major contributions in a number of
areas of medical device development, including cardiac stents and retinal
prostheses, but this year’s talk is the first to explore engineering the
genome. She will deliver her talk, “CRISPR: Rewriting DNA and the Future of
Humanity,” via Zoom on October 26 at 4 p.m. Registration is available here.

Many Duke scientists are using CRISPR in their labs and research to
investigate gene regulation and function, potential therapeutics for genetic
diseases such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy and cancer, and much more.

In advance of Doudna’s lecture on October 26, several Duke researchers were
invited to ask her questions about her work:

**Geoffrey Ginsburg, director of the Center for Applied Genomics & Precision
Medicine and MEDx: **_Can you briefly describe how CRISPR is being used today,
what its potential is in the next 5-10 years, and how we can expect it to
change our world?_

Given that CRISPR genome editing as we know it hasn’t quite hit its tenth
birthday, it’s always astonishing to see how much has been accomplished in
that time. There is always a lot of focus on the development of genome-editing
therapeutics, but the greatest effect so far has been on life science research
and our ability to understand the genetic basis for diseases and other genetic
traits, whether it’s health related, or how a butterfly gets its colors.

The next 5-10 years will also bring surprises, but we’re at a tipping point
right now where the preclinical work of the past nine years is transitioning
into clinical trials, and the number is growing quickly. From just one or two
in the past few years, we’re now seeing trials for congenital blindness,
chronic infection, cancers, and more, not to mention a number of new rapid
point-of-care diagnostics. The first CRISPR-edited crop just hit the market in
Japan, and while the development of agricultural applications may take longer,
their effect on hunger, malnutrition, climate change adaptation, and carbon
capture will have a far greater impact on human health than any single new
therapy.

**Helen Streff, biomedical engineering PhD student:** _From your perspective,
what are the most pressing ethical questions raised by CRISPR technology? As
the technology has become more realistic to apply in the clinic, what factors
should be considered in determining whether germline editing is appropriate?_

The ability to edit the genome of living organisms brings up a host of ethical
issues, but, to me, the most pressing issues are access and affordability.
There’s a very real possibility that a transformative therapy gets developed
but never reaches those who need it most, because it doesn’t fit a particular
business model or because it can only be accessed by a privileged few.

Germline editing has both scientific and ethical hurdles ahead of it. For
germline editing to ever be considered a viable option, it would first have to
be proven safe and effective, which is not currently the case. It would have
to be medically necessary and applied to a disease that isn’t well managed by
other approaches or through somatic editing. Ethically, it raises many
questions about what is medically necessary, and who gets to make that
decision. There may come a time when it would be considered unethical not to
use germline editing to treat a disorder, but for now the vast majority of
diseases can be addressed in other ways, and we can help the most people by
focusing on developing somatic cell editing therapies, which is our focus at
the Innovative Genomics Institute (IGI).

**Charles Gersbach, director of the Center for Advanced Genomic
Technologies:** _Advances in technologies to treat disease are outpacing the
abilities of our health care system to provide them to those with the most
need. What should be done to ensure equitable access to curative therapies
based on genome editing?_

This is a key point. Take the example of sickle cell disease: the first wave
of clinical trials on CRISPR-based therapies is looking quite promising in
terms of safety and efficacy, but right now the procedure costs in excess of
$2 million per patient. The procedure itself can only be performed by a small
number of experts at a handful of hospitals worldwide. So I’m thrilled about
the progress, but we don’t yet have a cure that meets the needs of the vast
majority of people in the world who suffer from this disease.

The positive news is that there are at least half a dozen different CRISPR-
based clinical trials in the pipeline for sickle cell disease, and these are
coming out both for-profit companies and nonprofits like the IGI and the UC
Consortium where the explicit goal is to develop an accessible, affordable
cure. That level of interest can’t be repeated for every disease, particularly
rare and neglected diseases, so it’s critical that the research community
develops therapeutic approaches and delivery modalities that cut across
multiple diseases, so that we can accelerate both the development of new
therapies and the path to affordability across the category.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

