

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Data and Decision-Making: Master's Students Take a Practical Approach

March 3, 2017

For Master of Engineering Management (MEM) students in the fast-growing Data &
Decisions track, companies are becoming classrooms—thanks to the program’s
capstone consulting practicums.

**A Free Sample of Data Analytics**

Duke’s bringing data analytics education to professionals everywhere with a
four-course “Analytic Techniques for Business” specialization through
Coursera. Free to audit ($395 for certification) the six-week course series is
a worldwide hit—outfits such as _Business Insider_ consistently rank the class
as one of the best and most popular available on the platform, with more than
250,000 active learners enrolled to date.For Master of Engineering Management
(MEM) students in the fast-growing Data & Decisions track, companies are
becoming classrooms—thanks to the program’s capstone consulting practicums.

For Master of Engineering Management (MEM) students in the fast-growing Data &
Decisions track, companies are becoming classrooms—thanks to the program’s
capstone consulting practicums.

“Companies get help with their problems while students get experience
consulting. It’s a great bargain,” said faculty member John Nicholson, who has
arranged over 25 practicums with companies such as IBM, Cisco and Lenovo.
“With more and more projects focused on data-driven solutions, Duke is really
becoming a place that students are seeking out for data analytics.”

In the semester-long practicums, small teams of students work with a faculty
mentor and industry representative to deliver solutions corporate partners
need—typically investing more than 800 cumulative hours to complete a
project’s research, analysis and strategic elements.

“I’ve worked in teams in other courses, but the practicum was a chance to work
on a real live initiative in a professional environment,” said MEM student
Rounak Mehta, whose team turned to data analytics to help a midsize company
differentiate itself in the marketplace. “It was incredibly satisfying.”

Such real-world experience is one reason the program’s Data & Decisions track
is quickly growing in popularity. Another is the overwhelming success of a
data analytics course on Coursera co-created by Daniel Egger, director of the
Duke MEM Center for Quantitative Modeling (see sidebar), which offers online
learners exposure to some of the topics and strategies taught in the MEM
program.

“Anyone working in business these days has to understand the impact of Big
Data and data analytics,” Egger said. “Between the Information Initiative at
Duke and the MEM program, Duke is ideally positioned to offer a course like
this.”

Not only have a quarter-million people to date accessed the online course,
dozens of online learners liked the teaching so much they have enrolled in
Duke’s full degree program. The demand is no surprise, says Brad Fox,
associate dean and executive director for Duke Engineering’s Professional
Masters Programs.

“As you look at what engineering managers are expected to do in today’s
business world, using data to make informed decisions is a crucial piece of
their job,” he says. “It’s imperative that students understand how they can
leverage data to glean new insights.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

