

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Data from Smartwatches Can Help Predict Clinical Blood Test Results

May 24, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Long-term data gathered from wearables can quicky indicate illness and other
abnormalities in a patient’s health

Smartwatches and other wearable devices may be used to sense illness,
dehydration and even changes to the red blood cell count, according to
biomedical engineers and genomics researchers at Duke University and the
Stanford University School of Medicine.

The researchers say that, with the help of machine learning, wearable device
data on heart rate, body temperature and daily activities may be used to
predict health measurements that are typically observed during a clinical
blood test. The study appears in Nature Medicine on May 24, 2021.

During a doctor’s office visit, a medical worker usually measures a patient’s
vital signs, including their height, weight, temperature and blood pressure.
Although this information is filed away in a person’s long-term health record,
it isn’t usually used to create a diagnosis. Instead, physicians will order a
clinical lab, which tests a patient’s urine or blood, to gather specific
biological information to help guide health decisions.

These vital measurements and clinical tests can inform a doctor about specific
changes to a person’s health, like if a patient has diabetes or has developed
pre-diabetes, if they’re getting enough iron or water in their diet, and if
their red or white blood cell count is in the normal range.

But these tests are not without their drawbacks. They require an in-person
visit, which isn’t always easy for patients to arrange, and procedures like a
blood draw can be invasive and uncomfortable. Most notably, these vitals and
clinical samples are not usually taken at regular and controlled intervals.
They only provide a snapshot of a patient’s health on the day of the doctor’s
visit, and the results can be influenced by a host of factors, like when a
patient last ate or drank, stress, or recent physical activity.

“There is a circadian (daily) variation in heart rate and in body temperature,
but these single measurements in clinics don’t capture that natural
variation,” said Duke’s Jessilyn Dunn, a co-lead and co-corresponding author
of the study. “But devices like smartwatches or Fitbits have the ability to
track these measurements and natural changes over a prolonged period of time
and identify when there is variation from that natural baseline.”

To gain a consistent and fuller picture of patients’ health, Dunn, an
assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke, Michael Snyder, a
professor and chair of genetics at Stanford, and their team wanted to explore
if long-term data gathered from wearable devices could match changes that were
observed during clinical tests and help indicate health abnormalities.

The study, which began in 2015 at Stanford with the Integrative Personal Omics
Profiling (iPOP) cohort, included 54 patients. Over three years, the iPOP
participants wore an Intel Basis smart watch that measured their heart rate,
movement, skin temperature and sweat gland activation. The participants also
attended regular clinic visits, where researchers used traditional measurement
methods to track things like heart rate, temperature, red and white blood cell
count, glucose levels, and iron levels.

The experiment showed that there were multiple connections between the
smartwatch data and clinical blood tests. For example, if a participant’s
watch indicated they had a lower sweat gland activation, as measured by an
electrodermal sensor, that indicated that the patient was consistently
dehydrated.

“Machine learning methods applied to this unique combination of clinical and
real-world data enabled us to identify previously unknown relations between
smartwatch signals and clinical blood tests,” said Łukasz Kidziński, a co-lead
author of the study and a researcher at Stanford.

The team also found that measurements that are taken during a complete blood
lab, like hematocrit, hemoglobin, and red and white blood cell count, had a
close relationship to the wearables data. A higher sustained body temperature
coupled with limited movement tended to indicate illness, which matched up
with a higher white blood cell count in the clinical test. A record of
decreased activity with a higher heart rate could also indicate anemia, which
occurs when there isn’t enough iron in a patient’s blood.

Although the wearables data isn’t specific enough to accurately predict the
precise number of red or white blood cells, Dunn and the team are highly
optimistic that it could be a noninvasive and fast way to indicate when
something in a patient’s medical data is abnormal.

“If you think about someone just showing up in an emergency room, it takes
time to check them in, to get labs going, and to get results back,” said Dunn.
“But if you were to show up in an ER and you’ve got an Apple Watch or a
Fitbit, ideally you’d be able to pull the long-term data from that device and
use algorithms to say, ‘this may be what’s going on.’

“This experiment was a proof-of-concept, but our hope for the future is that
physicians will be able to use wearable data to immediately get valuable
information about the overall health of a patient and know how to treat them
before the clinical labs are returned,” Dunn said. “There is a potential for
life-saving intervention there if we can get people the right care faster.”

Stanford-based co-authors include former undergraduate researcher Ryan Runge;
research engineer Jennifer Hicks, PhD; Sophia Miryam Rose, MD, instructor of
genetics; former postdoctoral scholar Xiao Li, PhD; genetics lecturer Amir
Bahmani, PhD; and Scott Delp, PhD, professor of bioengineering and of
mechanical engineering. Duke co-authors also include Daniel Witt, a master’s
student in interdisciplinary data science.

This work was supported by grants from the NIH Common Fund Human Microbiome
Project (HMP) (1U54DE02378901) and a National Institutes of Health National
Center for Advancing Translational Science Clinical and Translational Science
Award (UL1TR001085). JD, LK, RR, and JH were supported by the Mobilize Center
grant (NIH U54 EB020405). SMS-FR was supported by a NIH Career Development
Award no. K08 ES028825. The Stanford Translational Research Integrated
Database Environment (STRIDE) is a research and development project at
Stanford University to create a standards-based informatics platform
supporting clinical and translational research.

Competing financial interests: Michael Snyder is a cofounder of Personalis,
SensOmics, Qbio and January and is on the scientific advisory board of
Personalis, SensOmics, Qbio, Epinomics and Genapsys.

CITATION: “Wearable Sensors Enable Personalized Predictions of Health
Measurements,” Jessilyn Dunn, Lukasz Kidzinski, Ryan Runge, Daniel Witt,
Jennifer Hicks, Sophia Miryam, Schussler-Fiorenza Rose, Xiao Li, Amir Bahmani,
Scott Delp, Trevor Hastie and Michael Snyder. Nature Medicine, May 24, 2021.
DOI: 10.1038/s41591-021-01339-0

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

