

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Daubechies Named North American Laureate of 2019 L'Oréal-UNESCO
International Award For Women in Science

February 12, 2019

Award presented annually since 1998 to five outstanding women in chemistry,
physics, materials science, mathematics and computer science

_From L'Oreal USA_

In celebration of the International Day of Women and Girls in Science, L'Oréal
USA today announced the selection of Professor Ingrid Daubechies as the North
American Laureate for the 2019 International _Award For Women in Science_.
Professor Daubechies will be awarded with €100,000 for her exceptional
research in Mathematics and honored at an awards ceremony in Paris on March
14, 2019.

Rooted in the belief that the world needs science and science needs women, the
L'Oréal-UNESCO _For Women in Science_ program, established in 1998, annually
honors five outstanding women scientists from around the world for their
contributions to the sciences, in fields including chemistry, physics,
materials science, mathematics and computer science.

Professor Daubechies is an accomplished physicist and applied mathematician;
she currently holds the title of Professor of Mathematics at Duke University.
Daubechies is being honored for her remarkable research on wavelet
theory—transforming the numerical treatment of images and signals for data
compression and creating a new universal language for scientists and
researchers. Wavelet theory has broad implications, including enabling the
reconstruction of early Hubble Telescope images, the electronic sharing of
highly detailed fingerprints, detection of forged documents, the rise of
digital cinema and medical imaging.

Professor Daubechies will be honored alongside four Laureates, these
exceptional women are recognised for the excellence of their research in the
fields of material science, mathematics and computer science:

  * **Africa and the Arab States:** Professor Najat Aoun Saliba for her
    research in analytical and atmospheric chemistry;
  * **Asia Pacific:** Professor Maki Kawai for her work in chemistry;
  * **Latin America:** Professor Karen Hallberg for her research in condensed
    matter physics; and
  * **Europe:** Professor Claire Voisin for her research in algebraic
    geometry.

In the domain of scientific research, the glass ceiling is still a reality:
**only 28% of researchers are women, **1** 11% of senior academic roles are
held by women **2** and just 3% of Nobel Prizes for science have been awarded
to women. **The highest ranks in the mathematics field are particularly devoid
of women; in recognizing mathematics and computer science with the
International Award for the first time, the L'Oréal Foundation and UNESCO seek
to reinforce their efforts to empower women across all scientific fields.

"L'Oréal is proud to honor Professor Daubechies for her outstanding
achievements and ground-breaking work in mathematics," said Lauren Paige, Vice
President of Public Affairs and Strategic Initiatives at L'Oréal USA. "For
over 21 years, L'Oréal has worked tirelessly to advance women in science and
this new inclusion of computer science and mathematics has only strengthened
this commitment."

Professor Daubechies has been a trailblazer for women in mathematics, having
become the first female 'full professor' of mathematics at Princeton
University and the first woman researcher to be president of the International
Mathematical Union. She received the medal of the U.S. National Academy of
Sciences in 2000 and is committed to fighting for women's access to science
and education in developing countries.

"In math, we always seek to understand magical things," says Professor Ingrid
Daubechies, "I hope that my work will also be instrumental in helping people
see that mathematics is everywhere."

Since 1998, the L'Oréal Foundation, in partnership with UNESCO, has worked to
improve the representation of women in scientific careers. In its 21 years,
the _For Women in Science_ program has supported and raised the profile of 107
laureates and more than 3,000 talented young scientists in 117 countries.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

