

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Researchers Join National Effort to Demystify Deep Learning

August 31, 2020

$10 million award will explore the mechanisms underlying deep learning
algorithms to push AI applications to the next level

Three researchers from across Duke University are joining a nationwide
collaboration to crack the coding contortions of deep learning algorithms that
fuel artificial intelligence and related technologies that continue to propel
society forward at an ever-increasing pace.

Automated systems, designed to simplify our lives, are everywhere, from
customer service chatbots to self-driving cars. The complex and large-scale
nature of deep networks, however, makes them hard to analyze, leading
researchers to mostly use them as black boxes without formal guarantees on
their performance. The design of deep networks remains an art and is largely
driven by empirical performance on a data set. As deep learning systems are
increasingly employed in our daily lives, it becomes critical to understand if
their predictions satisfy certain desired properties.

Led by René Vidal, the director of the Mathematical Institute for Data Science
(MINDS) and the Herschel L. Seder Professor in Johns Hopkins University’s
Department of Biomedical Engineering, a team of engineers, mathematicians and
theoretical computer scientists from multiple institutions will seek to
revolutionize our understanding of the mathematical and scientiﬁc foundations
of deep learning.

Their project, Collaborative Research: Transferable, Hierarchical, Expressive,
Optimal, Robust, and Interpretable NETworks (THEORINET), is funded by the
National Science Foundation-Simons Foundation’s Research Collaborations on the
Mathematical and Scientific Foundations of Deep Learning (MoDL) program and
will receive ten million dollars over five years. The Johns Hopkins-led
consortium is one of only two teams that were awarded funding for this
national effort.

Joining THEORINET from Duke are Guillermo Sapiro, the James B. Duke
Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering; Ingrid
Daubechies, the James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and
Electrical and Computer Engineering; and Rong Ge, assistant professor of
computer science and mathematics. The award is set to sustain Duke’s work with
two million dollars over five years.

“The complex and large-scale nature of deep networks makes them hard to
analyze and, therefore, they are mostly used as black-boxes without formal
guarantees on their performance,” explained Vidal. “As deep learning systems
are increasingly employed in our daily lives, it becomes critical to
understand if their predictions satisfy certain desired properties.”

"NSF and our partners at the Simons Foundation recognize the importance of
discovering the mechanisms by which deep learning algorithms work," echoed
Juan Meza, director of the division of mathematical sciences at NSF. "By
understanding the limits of these networks, we can push them to the next
level."

THEORINET researchers will develop a mathematical, statistical and
computational framework that will explain the success of current deep network
architectures, understand their pitfalls, and guide the design of novel
architectures with guaranteed robustness, interpretability, optimality, and
transferability.

Another goal for the project is to train a new, diverse STEM workforce with
data science skills that are essential for the global competitiveness of the
U.S. economy. This will be accomplished through the creation of new
undergraduate and graduate research programs focused on the foundations of
data science, including a series of collaborative research events. Women and
members of underrepresented minority populations also will be served through
an associated NSF-supported Research Experience for Undergraduates program in
the foundations of data science.

Joining the Johns Hopkins and Duke collaboration are researchers from the
University of Pennsylvania, the University of California – Berkeley, Stanford
University and the Technical University of Berlin.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

