

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Design Health Program Impresses on the National Stage

April 26, 2021

Duke’s Design Health teams are finding success, earning top spots in national
design competitions and turning innovative prototypes into patents

In Duke University’s Design Health Program, teams of students from
engineering, medicine, business and other fields are immersed in real-world
health-care settings, where they’re challenged to identify pressing needs and
develop innovative, practical solutions for clinicians and patients alike.
This year, multiple Design Health teams have taken their prototypes on to win
top prizes in major design competitions and even valuable patents.

Design Health students Kevin Rosenthal, Anish Nigade, Pratik Doshi, Len
Assakul and Kelly Yang won a $100,000 TMC Innovation Healthcare Investment
Prize from the Rice Business Plan Competition for their project, ArchGuard.
Their tool is a novel cerebral protection device that shields key vessels
during the transcatheter aortic valve replacement cardiology procedure. The
team was selected from over 440 teams to compete for startup money, and they
received the third highest level of funding.

A second team, Pulmopivot, took first place in the Design of Medical Devices
Competition hosted by the University of Minnesota. The team, made up of Anna
Matthews, Nicolas Swischuk, Nina Chiu, Brandon Tramontana, Alejandro Pino and
Michael Wong, received a $500 cash prize for their project, a new cell
collection method that improves diagnostic yield during a thoracentesis
procedure.

Three separate teams also excelled at this week’s PDMA Innovate Carolina
design competition. The project Helping Hearts, led by Pamela Gallardo-Luna,
Jason Liu, Titus Ngeno, Pam Porter, Alesha Pressley, Sravan Putikam, Desmond
Smith, Kayana Tyson and Zack Weaver took first place. Shock Value, from the
team of Emma Cooper, Aaron Earle-Richardson, Salma Moncayo-Reyes, Navid
Nafissi, Maryam Nuru, Vivian Qi, Jess Rames, Rose Roark, Michael Swartwood and
Rachel Welscott placed second. Maura Armezzani, Peter Cestrone, Bryant Green,
Rini Jayarethinam, Stevan Kriss, Casey Lee, Laryssa Melnyk, Laukik Nagawekar,
Alex Thomason took fourth place for their project, Second Wind.

But success wasn’t limited to design competitions––Recently, both the
ArchGuard and LumosIV teams filed U.S. patents for their respective
prototypes.

The Design Health team that developed the COVIAGE Isolation Tent also received
a notice of allowance from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the
intellectual property has been licensed by the first company, iSolace, to be
launched from Design Health. This project, developed during 2020 after the
start of the coronavirus pandemic, includes a clear tent that can cover a
hospital bed. The tent attaches to a negative-pressure HVAC system, which can
help contain the SARS-CoV-2 virus by filtering the contaminated air exiting
the tent. The tool was developed to make it easier for medical staff to move
patients around the hospital without risking contamination and is now being
evaluated in an IRB-approved clinical trial at Duke Hospital.

“We’re thrilled our students are excelling in design competitions,” says Eric
Richardson, an associate professor of the practice in Duke Biomedical
Engineering who leads the Design Health program with Paul Fearis and Jo
Knight. “Design Health was developed to give students a world-class education
in medical device design, and it’s gratifying to see them earn patents and be
recognized in prestigious design competitions.”

“In what has been a difficult year for students at all levels, these team,
some spread around the globe, found new and innovative ways to work and
prototype together,” says Fearis, a senior lecturing fellow in Duke BME. “The
results speak for themselves.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

