

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Type 2 Diabetes Drugs Work Better in Tethered Combination Therapy

August 26, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Slow-release molecule featuring two complementary type 2 diabetes drugs
controls blood sugar levels while promoting weight loss in mice for one week
following a single injection

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have shown that the efficacy of a two-
pronged type 2 diabetes treatment increases when the drugs are linked by a
heat-sensitive tether rather than simply concurrently administered. The
combination molecule is formed by an elastin-like polypeptide (ELP) linker
that forms a gel-like depot when injected under the skin, which slowly
dissolves and releases the active drug over time.

This novel approach features the commonly prescribed type 2 diabetes drug
glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and the compelling drug candidate fibroblast
growth factor 21 (FGF21) that together create tight glycemic control and
potent weight-reduction in diabetic mice. Coupled with the slow-release
function of the ELP, the effects last longer than one week with a single
injection.

Because GLP-1, a short peptide, and FGF21, a large folded protein, are such
different compounds, these findings suggest that this approach to combination
drug design could be applied to disease therapies beyond diabetes.

The results appear online on August 26 in the journal Science Advances.

“In the burgeoning field of multi-functioning single-molecule diabetes drug
design, researchers primarily unite drugs that are similar in size, structure
and function,” said Caslin Gilroy, a postdoctoral scholar at the University of
California, Berkeley, who led the project while completing her PhD in
biomedical engineering at Duke. “Being able to combine such structurally
distinct drugs into a single molecule while maintaining the bioactivity and
stability of each is a big technological achievement.”

Type 2 diabetes is a progressive disease where body tissues become resistant
to the effects of insulin, which regulates the movement of sugar from the
bloodstream into cells. When this carefully tuned system breaks down, blood
sugar levels remain toxically elevated and a host of serious complications can
follow. While many treatment options exist, a single drug is rarely able to
treat an advanced case. Conventional medications lose their potency over time
and frequently cause weight gain, which itself can promote insulin resistance
and exacerbate the disease.

> “Being able to combine such structurally distinct drugs into a single
> molecule while maintaining the bioactivity and stability of each is a big
> technological achievement.” - Caslin Gilroy

A growing class of drugs is based on GLP-1, a naturally occurring peptide
released from the intestines after a meal. GLP-1 therapy enhances the release
of insulin from the pancreas while promoting weight loss. However, the high
doses of GLP-1 that are sometimes necessary to maintain healthy blood sugar
levels have been shown to cause gastrointestinal distress. Researchers are
exploring combination therapies that strategically pair GLP-1 with additional
drugs to maximize glucose control, minimize side effects and augment weight
loss.

While most drug combinations incorporate small peptides from the same family
as GLP-1, Gilroy and Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished
Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke, chose to work with FGF21. A
metabolic hormone, FGF21 regulates insulin sensitivity, energy expenditure and
fat metabolism within body tissues.

“FGF21 functions through a different mechanism than GLP-1, and we hypothesized
that the two drugs would complement each other nicely,” said Gilroy. “GLP-1
increases insulin secretion by the pancreas, while FGF21 enhances the body’s
response to the insulin. GLP-1 reduces food intake, while FGF21 helps burn
more calories.”

But rather than simply injecting diabetic mice with both drugs at the same
time, the researchers decided to link GLP-1 and FGF21 together into a single
molecule. This approach to combination therapy has several advantages. A
single molecule is more predictable in how it will disperse through the body,
act on its target tissues and eventually be cleared. A single drug is also
beneficial for the prescribing physician and patient, as it reduces the
medication burden and simplifies the treatment regimen. And the FDA approval
process for a single drug is more straightforward than for a drug mixture.

GLP-1 and FGF21, however, are both peptide-based drugs, heavily reliant on
shape and surface features to function. Tethering the two without interfering
with either is easier said than done.

To form one drug out of two, the researchers turned to the ELP—a specialty of
the Chilkoti research group. ELPs are chains of repetitive peptide sequences
that are highly disordered in nature. This disorder provides flexibility,
enabling drugs fused at each end of the ELP the room to do their respective
jobs. The modularity of ELPs also make them highly tunable, allowing for the
design of the best delivery system possible.

> “Linking the drugs to an ELP allows us to design a compound that is liquid
> at room temperature but forms a gel-like depot upon injection. The depot
> dissolves over the course of at least a week, slowly and regularly releasing
> drug to the system over time.” - Caslin Gilroy

Peptide-based drugs suffer from two notable disadvantages; they have a short
half-life, due to rapid clearance from the body, and they must be administered
by needle. An ELP-based delivery platform, however, addresses both of these
issues.

“Linking the drugs to an ELP allows us to design a compound that is liquid at
room temperature but forms a gel-like depot upon injection,” said Gilroy. “The
depot dissolves over the course of at least a week, slowly and regularly
releasing drug to the system over time.”

Chilkoti already has two Phase II clinical trials underway using ELPs as slow-
release delivery systems. One trial aims to treat pulmonary arterial
hypertension, while the second involves a potential therapy for COVID-19.

In the study, after verifying that GLP-1 and FGF21 retain their respective
functions and potencies when linked together by an ELP, Gilroy and Chilkoti
tested their multi-functioning, slow-release molecule in a mouse model of
diabetes.

> "We were more than pleasantly surprised when Caslin showed that combining
> these drugs into a single molecule clearly showed a synergistic therapeutic
> effect compared to a mixture of the two drugs. The data is so compelling
> that we believe it’s ready for a company to pursue this strategy
> commercially. Duke’s Office of Licensing and Ventures is currently looking
> to license it.” - Ashutosh Chilkoti

The results show that levels of drug circulating in the system remained steady
while blood sugar levels were brought down to a healthy level and maintained
for up to 10 days following a single dosing. Mice treated with the GLP-1/FGF21
combination drug were better able to recover from a glucose challenge compared
to either drug alone, and were the only test group to lose weight during the
trial.

The drug combination also worked better when GLP-1 and FGF21 were tethered
together rather than being delivered as a mixture of individual drugs. The
researchers think that linking them guarantees that GLP-1 and FGF21 are always
acting in concert at the same point in time, allowing their mechanisms of
action to synergize and work together.

“We had speculated that we may see synergy when we combined GLP-1 and FGF-21
because they have different modes of action,” said Chilkoti. “That was really
just a hope at the outset of this project, and we were more than pleasantly
surprised when Caslin showed that combining these drugs into a single molecule
clearly showed a synergistic therapeutic effect compared to a mixture of the
two drugs. The data is so compelling that we believe it’s ready for a company
to pursue this strategy commercially. Duke’s Office of Licensing and Ventures
is currently looking to license it.”

This work was supported by Duke MEDx, a Duke University program that supports
engineering innovation in medicine.

CITATION - “Sustained Release of a GLP-1 and FGF21 Dual Agonist from an
Injectable Depot Protects Mice from Obesity and Hyperglycemia.” C.A. Gilroy,
M.E. Capozzi, A.K. Varanko, J.Tong, D.A. D’Alessio, J.E. Campbell, A.
Chilkoti. Science Advances, Aug. 26, 2020. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aaz9890

# # #

## Related News

June 05, 2017

### Injectable Solution May Provide Weeks of Glucose Control

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

