

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Tech Promises Easier Cervical Cancer Screening

May 31, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

“Pocket colposcope” removes need for speculum, may enable self-screening

Duke University researchers have developed a handheld device for cervical
cancer screening that promises to do away with uncomfortable speculums and
high-cost colposcopes.

The “pocket colposcope” is a slender wand that can connect to many devices,
including laptops or cell phones.

If widely adopted, women might even use the device to self-screen,
transforming screening and cure rates in low-income countries and regions of
the United States, where cervical cancer is most prevalent.

Cervical cancer is the fourth most common cancer in women, with more than
500,000 new cases occurring annually worldwide. In the United States,
physicians diagnose more than 10,000 cases each year. While more than 4,000
American women die of the disease each year, the mortality rate has dropped
more than 50 percent in the past four decades, largely due to the advent of
well-organized screening and diagnostic programs.

While the Pap smear can be performed by a non-specialist, colposcopy requires
visualization of the cervix, relying on highly trained professionals and
expensive equipment that is not easily accessible to underserved populations.
These factors make cervical cancer more prevalent in women living in low
socioeconomic communities.

In a new paper published on May 31 in the journal PLOS One, researchers from
Duke believe they have found a better way.

“The mortality rate of cervical cancer should absolutely be zero percent
because we have all the tools to see and treat it,” said Nimmi Ramanujam, the
Robert W. Carr, Jr., Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke. “But it
isn’t. That is in part because women do not receive screening or do not follow
up on a positive screening to have colposcopy performed at a referral clinic.
We need to bring colposcopy to women so that we can reduce this complicated
string of actions into a single touch point.”

Current standard practices for cervical cancer screening require three things:
a speculum, a colposcope and a trained professional to administer the test.

The speculum is a metal device designed to spread the vaginal walls apart. The
colposcope is a magnified telescopic device and camera designed to allow
medical professionals to look through the speculum to see the cervix, which is
located three to six inches inside the vagina. Colposcopes and people who know
how to use them are difficult to find in many low-income regions, both
domestically and internationally.

Ramanujam believes she can replace at least two of these requirements. Her
laboratory has developed an all-in-one device that resembles a pocket-sized
tampon with lights and a camera at one end. Health providers—or even women
themselves—are able to capture images of the cervix using the rounded tip of
the device to manipulate its position if necessary. The device also includes a
channel through which contrast agents used for the cervical cancer screening
procedure can be applied.

“We recruited 15 volunteers on Duke’s campus to try out the new integrated
speculum-colposcope design,” said Mercy Asiedu, a graduate student working on
the project in Ramanujam’s lab. “Nearly everyone said they preferred it to a
traditional speculum and more than 80 percent of the women who tried the
device were able to get a good image. Those that couldn’t felt that they just
needed some practice.”

Ramanujam and Asiedu are now working on clinical trials to see how their
design stacks up against the traditional colposcopy used with a speculum. By
using both methods to visualize the cervix, the researchers will be able to
make a direct comparison.

Asiedu is also working to automate the screening process. By using image
processing and machine learning to teach computers how to spot signs of
precancerous and cancerous cells, Asiedu hopes to remove the need for a
trained physician at any point in the screening process and shift the task to
midwives, community health workers and even the women themselves.

“There have been a few other attempts to come up with a better solution, but
none of them have succeeded,” said Asiedu. “One design using an inflatable
cylinder proved just as uncomfortable as a traditional speculum. Another using
directed airflow is just as bulky and expensive as a modern colposcope. With
our handheld, low-cost design, we’re hoping to redefine the entire procedure.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (1R01CA195500,
1R01CA193380).

CITATION: “Design and Preliminary Analysis of a Vaginal Inserter for Speculum-
Free Cervical Cancer Screening,” Asiedu MN, Agudogo J, Krieger M, Miros, R,
Proeschold-Bell, RJ, Schmitt JW, Ramanujam N. PLOS One, May 31, 2017. DOI:
10.1371/journal.pone.0177782

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

