

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Do-It-Yourself Invisibility with 3-D Printing

May 6, 2013 | by Richard Merritt

Duke scientists produced a small invisibility cloak using 3-D printing

DURHAM, N.C. – Seven years ago, Duke University engineers demonstrated the
first working invisibility cloak in complex laboratory experiments. Now it
appears creating a simple cloak has become a lot simpler.

“I would argue that essentially anyone who can spend a couple thousand dollars
on a non-industry grade 3-D printer can literally make a plastic cloak
overnight,” said Yaroslav Urzhumov, assistant research professor in electrical
and computer engineering at Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering.

Three-dimensional printing, technically known as stereolithographic
fabrication, has become increasingly popular, not only among industry, but for
personal use. It involves a moving nozzle guided by a computer program laying
down successive thin layers of a material -- usually a polymer plastic --
until a three-dimensional object is produced.

Urzhumov said that producing a cloak in this fashion is inexpensive and easy.
He and his team made a small one at Duke which looks like a Frisbee™ disc made
out of Swiss cheese. Algorithms determined the location, size and shape of the
holes to deflect microwave beams. The fabrication process takes from three to
seven hours.

The results of Urzhumov’s experiments were published online in the journal
Optics Letters, and the team’s research was supported by the U.S. Army
Research Office through a Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative
grant.

Just like the 2006 cloak, the newer version deflects microwave beams, but
researchers feel confident that in the not-so-distant future, the cloak can
work for higher wavelengths, including visible light.

“We believe this approach is a way towards optical cloaking, including visible
and infrared," Urzhumov said. "And nanotechnology is available to make these
cloaks from transparent polymers or glass. The properties of transparent
polymers and glasses are not that different from what we have in our polymer
at microwave frequencies.”

The disk-like cloak has an open area in its center where the researchers
placed an opaque object. When microwave beams were aimed at the object through
the side of the disk, the cloak made it appear that the object was not there.

“The design of the cloak eliminates the ‘shadow’ that would be cast, and
suppresses the scattering from the object that would be expected,” said
Urzhumov. “In effect, the bright, highly reflective object, like a metal
cylinder, is made invisible. The microwaves are carefully guided by a thin
dielectric shell and then re-radiated back into free space on the shadow side
of the cloak.”

Urzhumov said that theoretically, the technique can be used to create much
larger devices.

“Computer simulations make me believe that it is possible to create a similar
polymer-based cloaking layer as thin as one inch wrapped around a massive
object several meters in diameter,” he said. “I have run some simulations that
seem to confirm this point.”

Other members of the team included Duke’s Nathan Landy and David R. Smith, as
well as Tom Driscoll and Dimitri Basov at the University of California – San
Diego.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

