

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Soft Robotic Dragonfly Signals Environmental Disruptions

March 25, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Electronics-free DraBot uses air pressure, microarchitectures and self-healing
hydrogels to watch for changes in pH, temperature and oil

Engineers at Duke University have developed an electronics-free, entirely soft
robot shaped like a dragonfly that can skim across water and react to
environmental conditions such as pH, temperature or the presence of oil. The
proof-of-principle demonstration could be the precursor to more advanced,
autonomous, long-range environmental sentinels for monitoring a wide range of
potential telltale signs of problems.

The soft robot is described online March 25 in the journal Advanced
Intelligent Systems.

Soft robots are a growing trend in the industry due to their versatility. Soft
parts can handle delicate objects such as biological tissues that metal or
ceramic components would damage. Soft bodies can help robots float or squeeze
into tight spaces where rigid frames would get stuck.

The expanding field was on the mind of Shyni Varghese, professor of biomedical
engineering, mechanical engineering and materials science, and orthopaedic
surgery at Duke, when inspiration struck.

“I got an email from Shyni from the airport saying she had an idea for a soft
robot that uses a self-healing hydrogel that her group has invented in the
past to react and move autonomously,” said Vardhman Kumar, a PhD student in
Varghese’s laboratory and first author of the paper. “But that was the extent
of the email, and I didn’t hear from her again for days. So the idea sort of
sat in limbo for a little while until I had enough free time to pursue it, and
Shyni said to go for it.”

In 2012, Varghese and her laboratory created a self-healing hydrogel that
reacts to changes in pH in a matter of seconds. Whether it be a crack in the
hydrogel or two adjoining pieces “painted” with it, a change in acidity causes
the hydrogel to form new bonds, which are completely reversible when the pH
returns to its original levels.

Varghese’s hastily written idea was to find a way to use this hydrogel on a
soft robot that could travel across water and indicate places where the pH
changes. Along with a few other innovations to signal changes in its
surroundings, she figured her lab could design such a robot as a sort of
autonomous environmental sensor.

With the help of Ung Hyun Ko, a postdoctoral fellow also in Varghese’s
laboratory, Kumar began designing a soft robot based on a fly. After several
iterations, the pair settled on the shape of a dragonfly engineered with a
network of interior microchannels that allow it to be controlled with air
pressure.

They created the body—about 2.25 inches long with a 1.4-inch wingspan—by
pouring silicon into an aluminum mold and baking it. The team used soft
lithography to create interior channels and connected with flexible silicon
tubing.

DraBot was born.

“Getting DraBot to respond to air pressure controls over long distances using
only self-actuators without any electronics was difficult,” said Ko. “That was
definitely the most challenging part.”

DraBot works by controlling the air pressure coming into its wings.
Microchannels carry the air into the front wings, where it escapes through a
series of holes pointed directly into the back wings. If both back wings are
down, the airflow is blocked, and DraBot goes nowhere. But if both wings are
up, DraBot goes forward.

To add an element of control, the team also designed balloon actuators under
each of the back wings close to DraBot’s body. When inflated, the balloons
cause the wings to curl upward. By changing which wings are up or down, the
researchers tell DraBot where to go.

“We were happy when we were able to control DraBot, but it’s based on living
things,” said Kumar. “And living things don’t just move around on their own,
they react to their environment.”

That’s where self-healing hydrogel comes in. By painting one set of wings with
the hydrogel, the researchers were able to make DraBot responsive to changes
in the surrounding water’s pH. If the water becomes acidic, one side’s front
wing fuses with the back wing. Instead of traveling in a straight line as
instructed, the imbalance causes the robot to spin in a circle. Once the pH
returns to a normal level, the hydrogel “un-heals,” the fused wings separate,
and DraBot once again becomes fully responsive to commands.

To beef up its environmental awareness, the researchers also leveraged the
sponges under the wings and doped the wings with temperature-responsive
materials. When DraBot skims over water with oil floating on the surface, the
sponges will soak it up and change color to the corresponding color of oil.
And when the water becomes overly warm, DraBot’s wings change from red to
yellow.

The researchers believe these types of measurements could play an important
part in an environmental robotic sensor in the future. Responsiveness to pH
can detect freshwater acidification, which is a serious environmental problem
affecting several geologically-sensitive regions. The ability to soak up oils
makes such long-distance skimming robots an ideal candidate for early
detection of oil spills. Changing colors due to temperatures could help spot
signs of red tide and the bleaching of coral reefs, which leads to decline in
the population of aquatic life.

The team also sees many ways that they could improve on their proof-of-
concept. Wireless cameras or solid-state sensors could enhance the
capabilities of DraBot. And creating a form of onboard propellant would help
similar bots break free of their tubing.

“Instead of using air pressure to control the wings, I could envision using
some sort of synthetic biology that generates energy,” said Varghese. “That’s
a totally different field than I work in, so we’ll have to have a conversation
with some potential collaborators to see what’s possible. But that’s part of
the fun of working on an interdisciplinary project like this.”

This work was mostly performed at Shared Materials and Instrumentation
facility (SMIF) at Duke University, a core facility supported by the National
Science Foundation (ECCS-1542015) as part of the National Nanotechnology
Coordinated Infrastructure (NNCI).

“Microengineered Materials with Self-healing Features for Soft Robotics.” V.
Kumar, U. Ko, Y. Zhou, J. Hoque, G. Arya, and S. Varghese. Adv. Intel. Sys.,
2021. DOI: 10.1002/aisy.202100005

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

