

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Receives $9.75 Million for ‘Big Data’ Initiative

April 27, 2015

The initiative focuses on harnessing massive amounts of information to tackle
society’s biggest challenges.

Duke University has received $9.75 million in gifts and matching funds to
support an initiative that focuses on harnessing massive amounts of
information to tackle society’s biggest challenges, President Richard H.
Brodhead said Monday.

Launched in 2013, the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD) brings together
diverse faculty and graduate and undergraduate students to make sense of "Big
Data" -- information characterized by tremendous volume, variety and rapid
change. The goal is to address a wide range of issues -- from the
identification of counterfeit art to the early detection of disease.

The iiD is the cornerstone of the Information, Society and Culture theme of
Bass Connections, another Duke initiative that encourages student and faculty
collaboration across traditional academic boundaries on issues of global
importance.

“The iiD has provided invaluable opportunities for our faculty and students to
translate vast amounts of data into major breakthroughs,” Brodhead said. “This
infusion of funds will allow us to continue to advance our understanding of
how to convert data into knowledge for human benefit, as well as train
students in these critical skills.”

The gifts will endow iiD professorships, graduate fellowships in engineering,
and educational programs on data-driven problem-solving, both in the classroom
and in the field. It also will provide flexible funding for iiD to explore new
teaching and research avenues.

“The availability of massive amounts of data within every disciplinary domain
is transforming research and education,” said Robert Calderbank, iiD director
and a professor in Duke’s departments of electrical and computer engineering,
computer science and mathematics. “With this generous support, Duke and iiD
will continue to lead the way in developing truly innovative opportunities for
our students and faculty to engage with big data and impact society in the
classroom and beyond.”

In the past two years, iiD teams of Duke faculty and students have analyzed
and interpreted unending torrents of data captured by computers, cameras,
sensors and smart phones. Projects so far have included collaborations with
Duke Medicine to deploy personalized health care; with the Duke University
Energy Initiative to understand energy usage and improve efficiency; and with
Duke’s Social Science Research Institute to inform better public policies.
Teams are also tackling the National Academy of Engineering’s Grand Challenges
for Engineering, such as reverse-engineering the brain to uncover its vast,
unrealized potential and to improve detection and treatment of brain-related
diseases.

In one Bass Connections project, iiD faculty and students are working together
to facilitate screening for autism and childhood mental disorders. By
designing algorithms to automatically detect abnormal movements or behaviors
captured on video, the team hopes to provide valuable tools to help clinicians
detect symptoms and intervene earlier.

“If we can find patterns in the data that point to just a few simple tests or
questions that truly indicate a problem, that would be a tremendous tool for
clinicians,” said Guillermo Sapiro, a professor in engineering and computer
science who co-leads the project with Duke child psychiatrist Dr. Helen Egger.
“It’s an exciting project because the contribution to society could be huge.”

The iiD also provides learning experiences for students that equip them to
live and work in a data-driven world. They include “Data Expeditions,” in
which graduate students lead undergraduates in analyzing messy data sets, from
baseball scores to art market records from 18th-century Paris. In Data+ summer
projects, students develop and use statistical and mathematical methods to
interpret data sets. This year, one group will examine Durham housing trends.

The $9.75 million includes two gifts totaling $6.67 million from an anonymous
donor that is matched by challenge funds from philanthropists Anne T. and
Robert M. Bass. Duke launched Bass Connections in 2013 with a $50 million gift
from the Basses, including $25 million in challenge money.

Bass Connections is a priority of Duke Forward, the seven-year, university-
wide fundraising campaign that aims to raise $3.25 billion by June 30, 2017.
Every dollar donated to Duke's 10 schools and units, Duke Medicine or
university programs and initiatives counts toward the campaign.

For more information about the iiD, go to bigdata.duke.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

