

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke BME Master’s Students Awarded New Fellowships for Research

March 31, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

New BME fellowship aims to provide greater opportunities for master's students

Duke’s Department of Biomedical Engineering (BME) recently announced that 11
students were selected for its new Student Research Fellowships, the first
such program offered to BME’s master’s students.

“This fellowship acts as a grant for the students and gives them power to
explore different topics they are interested in,” says Fan Yuan, the director
of master’s studies in BME and co-creator of the fellowship. “It’s the first
fellowship program where masters students lead the research themselves, which
we were very excited about.”

To be considered for the program, the students needed to submit a detailed
research plan and a letter of recommendation from the faculty advisor who
would oversee their work. If their projects were accepted, the brand-new
fellowship would provide funding for up to two semesters of a student’s
project, with the amount awarded per semester dependent on the student’s
proposed needs.

For some students, the fellowship provides a practical opportunity to practice
lab and grant-writing skills while pursuing diverse areas of interest in BME.
“I really enjoy collaborating and contributing to interdisciplinary research,
and this fellowship gives me the opportunity to do that while still
contributing to my education at Duke,” says fellowship recipient Jawad
Hoballah, a Master of Science candidate who will be using quantitative phase
imaging to study laminopathy in a bronchial cell model in Professor Adam Wax’s
lab. “It gives me the freedom to pursue answers to questions I’m curious about
and still build on practical knowledge.”

Other recipients of the inaugural fellowships include:

**Anandita Ananthakumar** with advisor George Truskey

**Ravi Chowdhary** with advisor Junjie Yao

**Hala El-Nahal** with advisor Marc Sommer

**Lauren Heckelman** with advisor Lou DeFrate

**Bangxin Lan** with advisor Junjie Yao

**Leah Machlin** with advisor Ashutosh Chilkoti

**Leighanne Oh** with advisor Michael Lynch

**Shuja Rayaz** with advisor Tuan Vo-Dinh

**Shi Shen** with advisor Pei Zhong

**Sinan Xiong** with advisor Ashutosh Chilkoti

The Master of Science and Master of Engineering programs in Duke BME are
designed to prepare graduates for future engineering careers in both industry
and academia, and students gain invaluable experience by conducting and
publishing research with faculty in the department. Although this is the first
iteration of the fellowship program, students and faculty are optimistic about
its role in promoting student-led research.

“We wanted to lower the barrier and make it easier for these students to
complete their own research and pick up necessary and important lab skills,”
says Ashutosh Chilkoti, chair of the BME department and a co-creator of the
fellowship. “It’s a new way to empower our master’s students.”

_To learn more about the fellowship, visit:_ bme.duke.edu/masters/fellowships

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

