

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# For Duke Summer Research Experience, Undergraduates Flock from Afar

August 10, 2018

Duke Engineering's summer research experiences offer undergraduates a preview
of where their studies could lead them

Clayton Connor spent last summer characterizing mineral samples at the
Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh—an unusually ambitious use of
free time for a rising college sophomore. This summer, to raise the bar a bit,
he took a crack at saving the world.

“Within my lifetime, I would like to see a world that runs on sustainable
energy,” said Connor.

> "Within my lifetime, I would like to see a world that runs on sustainable
> energy."
>
> **Clayton Connor**  
>  FEllow, Duke REU for Meeting the Grand Challenges

Connor is majoring in materials science and engineering and minoring in
computer science at Carnegie Mellon University, and was one of nine National
Science Foundation Fellows selected to participate in a Duke Research
Experience for Undergraduates (REU) focusing on the “Grand Challenges” of 21st
century engineering, which include issues like engineering better medicines
and preventing nuclear terror. Recruited from universities across the US, the
fellows received NSF funding to spend the summer in Duke's hometown of Durham,
N.C., where they conducted research alongside Duke Engineering faculty
mentors.

## Conducting Research Alongside Duke Faculty

Under the supervision of Volker Blum, an associate professor in mechanical
engineering and materials science, Connor devoted his summer to research that
could make solar energy more economical. He used his knowledge in three
academic areas—materials, computer science, and green energy—to help construct
an open, online database to store data on perovskites. These crystalline
materials offer a cheaper alternative to silicon for use in efficient solar
cells; if energy researchers can easily retrieve and compare data on
perovskites, they should be able to speed their research and hasten
breakthrough developments to make solar energy more affordable on a large
scale.

REU Grand Challenges Program co-director Johnna Frierson said she believes the
applicability of the research to be one of the program’s main strengths. “The
students get to be involved with really impactful, exciting research projects
that have importance to society and engineering as a whole,” said Frierson.

> "The students get to be involved with really impactful, exciting research
> projects that have importance to society and engineering as a whole."
>
> **Johnna Frierson**  
>  Co-director, REU Grand challenges Program

The program offers even more than research experience, though. Frierson worked
with co-director and Dean of Academic Advising Carmen Rawls to plan summer
programming that would give all of the students participating in all of Duke
Engineering’s REUs practical knowledge to complement their lab work.

“We want them to know what their career options are and how they can position
themselves,” said Frierson. “We want them to walk away knowing that they can
put together a competitive package for graduate school.”

Electrical and electronics engineering student Sueda Taner says she came away
from her REU with exactly the kind of confidence that Frierson and Rawls were
hoping to instill. Taner traveled across the world from her home university in
Turkey to work with Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Martin Brooke this summer, developing a sonar system for the drone that Duke
will use in this year’s Shell Ocean Discovery XPRIZE competition to map the
ocean floor. Though she was part of an ECE REU rather than the Grand
Challenges REU, she was able to take advantage of the programming that the NSF
grant allowed, which was open to all REU engineering participants. She says
she found the tips on applying to grad school to be especially important.

“Before coming to Duke, I was hesitant about pursuing a PhD, but REU at Duke
helped me to make up my mind,” said Taner. “I found making contributions to
the development of science and engineering extremely satisfying. Achieving
this as a woman is even more significant, considering the gender ratios in my
department.”

## Poster Session and Awards

Duke Engineering hosted 32 REU students in total this summer. The experiences
culminated in a public poster presentation session held in the Fitzpatrick
Center in late July.

Megan Ogle (UNC-Charlotte) won the Grand Challenge REU award and received full
funding for registration and travel expenses to present her summer research at
the REU Symposium in November.

For their outstanding poster presentations, four REU students won gift cards
to the Duke Bookstore:

  * Akosua Johnson (NC A&T University)
  * Chris Zhou (Duke University)
  * Enrique del Castillo (Princeton University)
  * Alex Wigger (Jordan High School, Durham, NC)

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

