

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Pioneers Pathway to Philanthropy for Entrepreneurs Through New Program

November 4, 2015

Entrepreneurs who are passionate about Duke University now have a new vehicle
that allows them to support the university by leveraging their start-ups.

The new DukeOne program enables entrepreneurs to pledge 1 percent of their
company to Duke, deferring their gift until they have sold their company, or
until it goes public, usually within five years.

“Gifts to Duke from entrepreneurs have historically been challenging because
their assets are often tied to their companies,” said Eric Toone, vice provost
and director of Duke’s Innovation and Entrepreneurship Initiative.

“With DukeOne, people who can’t give annually can now express their intent to
have a transformative impact by coupling their future success to their
philanthropy for Duke,” Toone said. “Now, people who can’t give a set amount
of money every year can at least express their intent to have a transformative
impact by coupling their future success to their philanthropy for Duke.”

DukeOne allows participants to sign a non-binding equity pledge to give 1
percent of their company to Duke at the time of a liquidity event. The basis
for the program was inspired by a 1-1-1 model initiated by Marc Benioff,
founder and CEO of Saleforce.com, that asks donors to pledge 1 percent of
their company’s equity, time and product to benefit society.

“This allows the entrepreneur to maximize their tax benefits along with being
recognized for the full impact of their future support,” said Phil Buchanan,
associate vice president of planned giving at Duke.

The Pratt School of Engineering, where many innovation and entrepreneurship
projects have started, spearheaded the development of DukeOne. It is among the
first of its kind in the country and is open to anyone interested in investing
in Duke although alumni and friends are expected to make up the bulk of
participants.

“It’s time that we as academic institutions provide an efficient avenue for
successful entrepreneurs who benefitted from their Duke experience to give
back,” said George Truskey, dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “I’m very
excited to watch DukeOne strengthen a robust community of current and future
Duke entrepreneurs while providing resources to Duke.”

Participants have an added incentive: Networking opportunities and training
events in conjunction with the Duke Angel Network, which university leaders
and alumni founded earlier this year. The network is focused on helping
private companies grow by facilitating the flow of capital and support from
Duke angel investors. It invests in companies in which a founder, executive or
board member is a Duke alumnus, faculty member, staff member, student or
parent.

“DukeOne is incredible,” said Nicholas Zaldastani, a Duke Engineering graduate
who was the first to sign up for the program. Zaldastani is co-founder of
CrocPond, a family entertainment and media brand, focused on socially positive
themes.

“As a Duke graduate, DukeOne provides an impactful means to support my desire
to contribute to the growth of the Duke community and to the mission of the
university.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

