

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering First-Year Design Team Impresses at NIH DEBUT Competition

September 21, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Design team wins $15,000 National Cancer Institute prize for their innovative
tool to help patients with colon cancer

In Duke Engineering’s signature First-Year Design program, students in the
Pratt School of Engineering spend a semester working on project-based design
challenges for their local, national and even global community. When the
program first launched in the fall of 2017, it was intended to give new
engineering students practical and immediate hands-on design experience. In
the intervening years, these student teams have gone on to find success in a
variety of national design competitions.

Most recently, the team of Alanna Manfredini, Joanna Peng, Darienne Rogers and
Amy Guan triumphed at the National Institutes of Health’s 9th annual Design by
Biomedical Undergraduate Teams (DEBUT) Challenge. The team’s project, named
LowCostomy, received the National Cancer Institute Prize for Technologies for
Cancer Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment. The team received $15,000 in prize
money in recognition for their work.

“It was really rewarding to see that all of our hard work was being
recognized,” says Manfredini. “It is so easy to make a design that you think
solves a problem but is actually something that nobody really wants. To know
that a national, governmental organization thought we could change lives with
LowCostomy was an incredible feeling.”

LowCostomy was designed to be an affordable colostomy bag for cancer patients
in need of ostomy procedures. Ostomies are necessary when parts of the bowel
are diseased or must be removed, which typically occurs during colon cancer.
These are lifesaving procedures, but the colostomy bags can be prohibitively
expensive and difficult to access, especially in resource-limited settings.

Rather than rely on homemade solutions, which can cause leakage and
discomfort, the LowCostomy team developed an affordable colostomy bag made of
recycled materials like plastic water bottles and small plastic bags. The tool
also contains odor, is low cost and can last up to two weeks. The material is
also easy to clean and environmentally friendly.

“I enjoyed thinking outside of the box in terms of maximizing the usage of
cheap local materials in Tanzania for the construction of the LowCostomy bag,”
says Guan. “The simplicity of using repurposed materials including plastic
water bottles, plastic bags, and cloth to create a life-changing medical
device is truly exciting.”

“We were drawn to this project because it seemed like a great opportunity to
extend our work beyond the realm of a one-semester course,” says Rogers. “I
saw it as an opportunity to work towards something real and to create a
meaningful solution that would have a lasting impact on people around the
world.”

“It was incredibly encouraging to know that there were other professionals in
the bioengineering world who believed in our cause and design as much as we
do,” says Peng. “Along with the encouragement we received, the award money
will allow us to explore the possibility of a clinical evaluation in the US or
sub-Saharan Africa. Receiving the award made all of us feel a major step
closer to being able to deliver the LowCostomy bag to our client.”

The team is now figuring out how to advance their prototype using materials
that are easily accessible in Tanzania in place of the materials used in
America. In addition to gaining IRB approval and completing a clinical
evaluation, the team is developing a standard operating procedure that will
easily explain how clinicians across the globe can construct the LowCostomy
device using provided materials.

“I am very proud of the team,” says Saterbak, the director of the First-Year
Design program. “Their enthusiasm and commitment to their project has been
impressive. I am also very appreciative of the work and contributions of Dr.
Dorothy Dow, a physician with appointments at Duke and Kilimanjaro Christian
Medical Centre in Tanzania, who served as the team’s clinical partner.”

The DEBUT competition is considered a premier undergraduate design contest in
biomedical engineering. For the 2021 competition, DEBUT received 76
applications from 47 universities in 26 states, which included nearly 400
students. The teams were judged on four key criteria––the significance of the
problem addressed, the impact on clinical care, the innovation of the design
and a working prototype.

“We are committed to nurturing the next generation of researchers and this is
why we champion competitions that leverage the intellectual capacity of young
innovators,” says Dr. Eliseo Pérez-Stable, the director of the National
Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD), in a release
announcing the winners. “By encouraging and supporting a culture of
innovation, we are paving the way for students to think outside the box and
develop cost-effective health care tools that will improve lives, especially
for underserved communities.”

The National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering, which
initiated and leads the DEBUT challenge, is supported in this effort by the
NIMHD, the NIH Office of AIDS Research and the National Cancer Institute. The
competition is also led by VentureWell, a non-profit higher-education network
that supports science and technology innovation and entrepreneurship in higher
education.

The students will receive their award during the annual Biomedical Engineering
Society conference on Oct. 6, 2021.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

