

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Names Engineering Quadrangle in Honor of Thomas and Susan Harrington

March 15, 2018 | By Michaela Kane

The Harringtons have generously supported the Pratt School of Engineering and
Duke over many years

Duke University has named the central quadrangle at the Pratt School of
Engineering the “Harrington Engineering Quadrangle” in honor of Thomas E.
Harrington E’66 and Susan C. Harrington.

> A ceremony to dedicate the Harrington Engineering Quadrangle was held April
> 21, 2018

The new name, approved by Duke’s Board of Trustees in February, honors the
Harringtons' generous support of the university and the Pratt School of
Engineering, including a recent major gift to advance the school’s goals and
priorities for engineering education and research.

“The Harrington Quad is among the most vibrant places on campus,” said Ravi V.
Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering. “From class projects to alumni picnics
to our weekly student e-socials, it is a space that hosts a wide range of
gatherings, connecting not only our buildings but our community. It means a
lot to us that a distinguished graduate like Tom would reach back to improve
the experience for future generations of engineers, and we are grateful to him
and Susan for their generous contributions over the years. The naming of this
important hub of school life is a wonderful way to celebrate their
commitment.”

A ceremony to dedicate the Harrington Engineering Quadrangle, the attractive
greenspace between historic Hudson Hall and the Fitzpatrick Center for
Interdisciplinary Engineering, Medicine and Applied Sciences, was held April
21, and included the unveiling of a new plaque honoring the Harringtons and
their contributions to the Duke University Pratt School of Engineering.

## Successful Alumnus Gives Back

After graduating from Duke University with a bachelor’s degree in electrical
engineering, Tom Harrington moved to Silicon Valley, where he began to pursue
multiple entrepreneurial ventures that combined his work in real estate and
his technical background.

In 1999, Harrington co-founded On-Site.com, a platform that makes it easier
for both renters and property managers to streamline the leasing process.
Beyond serving as chairman of the company, Harrington has also taught courses
on entrepreneurship and real estate investment, and is a featured speaker at
Stanford University’s Graduate School of Business.

Harrington credits his undergraduate engineering education for providing him
with valuable problem-solving skills that have helped him throughout his
entrepreneurial career path.

“My time as an engineering student at Duke challenged me to think both
creatively and practically,” said Harrington. “It really helped train me to
make efficient decisions, whether that was for a project I was working on or
for broader applications in life, and this engineering education set me up for
later success.”

Harrington is also grateful for the lifelong friends he made during his time
at Duke, and has fond memories of the time he spent working in Hudson Hall,
attending Duke basketball games, and even walking across the engineering quad
that will soon bear his name.

“I’ve always been emotionally attached to Duke because of the friends and
memories I’ve made here,” said Harrington. “My son also graduated from Duke,
so it’s been a point of pride for both of us, whether we’re watching
basketball games back home or returning to campus, to see how things have
changed since our time as students.”

## A History of Support

Harrington and his wife, Susan, have donated generously to the Pratt School of
Engineering and Duke University over the years. Their gifts have included a
conference room in the Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary Engineering,
Medicine and Applied Sciences, as well as ongoing support through the
Engineering Annual Fund.

> I know that Duke Engineers will accomplish great things, and I’m happy to
> contribute to that future success.
>
> Thomas E. Harrington E'66

With their newest gift, Harrington is excited to contribute to the expanding
curriculum that equips Duke Engineering students to tackle real-world
challenges and pursue innovative careers in engineering.

“I gained valuable skills and friends during my time at Duke, and I’m proud to
be a Duke alumnus today,” said Harrington. “I know that engineers from Pratt
will accomplish great things, and I’m happy to contribute to that future
success.”

Giving Opportunities

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

