

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke’s New Engineering Building Named to Honor Wilkinson Family

October 15, 2020

The Wilkinson Building, opening for classes in January 2021, will recognize
lifetime philanthropic and service contributions of Duke Engineering alumnus
Jerry C. Wilkinson and family

Duke University’s new engineering building, opening for classes in January
2021, will be named in honor of longtime supporters Jerry C. and Beverly A.
Wilkinson and their family, President Vincent E. Price announced today.

Jerry Wilkinson, a 1967 electrical engineering graduate and founder of the
Wilkinson Companies, and his wife, Beverly, have been volunteers and donors to
Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering for decades. Their most recent
contribution, a cornerstone gift to the Building for the Future of Duke
Engineering campaign, will fund the innovative research and educational
initiatives that will take place within the new $115-million engineering
building.

> “The Wilkinson Building represents the future of engineering at Duke, and
> I’m delighted that it will bear the name of Jerry Wilkinson and his family."
>
> President Vincent E. Price

“The Wilkinson Building represents the future of engineering at Duke, and I’m
delighted that it will bear the name of Jerry Wilkinson and his family, who
have demonstrated a longstanding commitment to supporting our students and
faculty,” said Price. “The Wilkinson Building will be a place where Duke
faculty and students come together from across the university to address the
world’s most pressing challenges, and I am grateful to the Wilkinson family
for their engagement and generosity.”

The 150,000-square-foot Wilkinson Building is nearing completion, with faculty
labs slated to begin a phased move-in this November and classrooms opening for
the Spring 2021 semester in January.

In addition to state-of-the-art design labs and active-learning classrooms,
the building features a Center for Engineering Entrepreneurship, a Center for
Innovation, a Learning Commons and a 200-seat auditorium, expanding Duke
Engineering’s current student education and programming space by 50 percent.

_Learn more about the vision for the Wilkinson Building at Duke in this 2018
video._

## Reimagining Engineering Education and Research

Located at the nexus of Engineering, Medicine and Arts & Sciences, the
Wilkinson Building will also house three interdisciplinary research
neighborhoods focused on solving challenges related to computing and AI, the
environment and human health.

“The new Wilkinson Building is much more than a cutting-edge facility—it’s the
physical expression of our vision to reimagine engineering education and
dissolve research silos to bring people together to solve real-world
problems,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of Engineering. “The building
was designed to further the purpose of Duke Engineering—preparing students to
do creative, meaningful work to shape the world. We are so excited that the
Wilkinson Building will be named for an alumnus and family who have lived out
those values.”

> “From welcoming engineering students to intern at his companies to leading
> campaigns and class reunions, Jerry Wilkinson has been a vital part of our
> community and its successes over the years.”
>
> Ravi V. Bellamkonda  
> Vinik Dean of Engineering

A past chair of the Pratt School of Engineering Board of Visitors, Jerry
Wilkinson received the Duke Engineering Distinguished Service Award in 1997
and the Duke Alumni Association’s Charles A. Duke Award in 2012.

He and Beverly Wilkinson have a long history of philanthropy to Duke,
establishing the Beverly A. and Jerry C. Wilkinson Scholarship, Myrtle Coker
Wilkinson Scholarship, and Wilkinson Family Fellowship, as well as naming the
Jerry C. Wilkinson E’67 Laboratory and The Robert Gordon Wilkinson Center for
Engineering Management.

_Read the Wilkinson Family's Giving Story_

Wilkinson said his parents set an example of giving both time and resources to
causes they believed would make a difference and change lives, despite limited
means. Growing up in rural East Tennessee, he was one of five children. His
mother was an elementary school teacher, and his father a machinist at the
Alcoa Aluminum plant. He received need-based financial aid to attend the
engineering school at Duke, arriving on campus for the first time at age 17,
and went on to pursue an MBA from the Wharton School at the University of
Pennsylvania and post-graduate studies at Harvard before entering a career in
real estate and ultimately founding the Wilkinson Companies.

“I’m a huge believer in the power of education—my Duke experience was
transformative for me personally,” said Wilkinson. “Studying engineering at
Duke in particular teaches you discipline and problem-solving skills at an
early age, as well as the broad perspectives that come with interacting with
classmates from many backgrounds and being part of the larger university
community.”

> “We are blessed to have this special opportunity to invest in young lives,
> and in the future of Duke and Duke Engineering.”
>
> Jerry C. Wilkinson, BSEE'67

Wilkinson said his family sees their gifts to Duke as a way to make a similar
positive difference for others.

“Duke Engineering students and faculty are learning and working on ways to
solve major issues in health, environment and other areas with great social
impact, and the leadership at both the university and school levels is
committed to using knowledge for the good of society,” he said. “We are
blessed to have this special opportunity to invest in young lives, and in the
future of Duke and Duke Engineering.”

“Jerry’s passion for good work, his humility and his love for Duke exemplify
all we are proud of in our graduates,” added Bellamkonda. “From welcoming Duke
engineering students to intern at his companies to leading campaigns and class
reunions, he has been a vital part of our community and its successes over the
years. We are proud to count Jerry as a Duke Engineer, and grateful for the
staunch support of the entire Wilkinson family.”

The Wilkinsons have three daughters, all Duke alumnae, and eight
grandchildren. They split their time between Atlanta, Ga., and Amelia Island,
Fla.

## Related News

April 19, 2019

### New Engineering Building Will Lead in Sustainability, Low Energy Use

February 27, 2018

### Duke to Construct New Building to Advance Engineering Education and
Research

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

