

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke's Michael Rubinstein Honored with 2022 Nelson W. Taylor Award

February 22, 2022 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

The materials scientist was recognized for outstanding contributions to
polymer and soft matter physics

Michael Rubinstein, Aleksander S. Vesic Distinguished Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science, Biomedical Engineering, Chemistry and
Physics at Duke University, has been selected for the prestigious 2022 Nelson
W. Taylor Award by the Penn State University Department of Materials Science
and Engineering. He is honored for “outstanding achievements and contributions
in the field of materials science.”

An international expert in theory and computer simulations of polymers, a type
of long-chain molecules made up of repeating units that make up many materials
in our day-to-day life, Rubinstein joins the esteemed ranks of recipients of
this award since 1970, including six Nobel Laureates.

“Clearly, our goal is to recognize the foremost contributors in materials at
the time of the award. You certainly meet this criterion,” wrote Susan
Sinnott, professor and head of the Department of Materials Science and
Engineering at Penn State.

Rubinstein will deliver the 2022 Nelson W. Taylor Lecture on the theme
“Advances in Polymer Physics,” at Penn State’s upcoming symposium on Materials
to Enhance Human Health.

A member of Duke University faculty with joint appointments in four
departments since 2018, Rubinstein also is a Duke MEDx Investigator, co-
founder of the Duke Soft Matter Center, a senior investigator with the five-
year, $20-million NSF-funded Duke Center for the Chemistry of Molecularly
Optimized Networks (MONET), which comprises an international team of leading
researchers. He is also a steering committee member of the Duke Materials
Initiative (DMI) and last fall co-organized the 2021 Duke Soft Matter
Symposium: Polymer Networks from Design to Application.

The research in Rubinstein’s research group focuses on developing simple
physical models of soft matter and biological systems ranging from polymer
elastomers (e.g., plastics and rubber) and gels to mucus in human lungs. Soft
matter is a subfield of science that investigates properties of complex
fluids, polymers, colloids (mixtures containing suspended particles), foams,
gels and many biological materials, among others.

In highly collaborative and interdisciplinary work cutting across physics,
chemistry, biomedical and mechanical engineering and materials science,
Rubinstein’s group performs computer simulations and experiments to test their
theoretical models. They work with experimental, computational and theoretical
groups at Duke, within Research Triangle, at other universities and research
laboratories in the U.S. and worldwide. An example is his collaboration with
physicians at UNC-Chapel Hill who are studying the role of thick mucus buildup
in the lungs in cystic fibrosis.

After earning his PhD at Harvard, Rubinstein worked in theoretical polymer
research at AT&T Bell Labs and Kodak Research Laboratories, before joining the
faculty at UNC-Chapel Hill’s Department of Chemistry.

## Related News

April 16, 2020

### Becker, Rubinstein Awarded Distinguished Professorships

May 07, 2019

### Rubinstein Wins 2019 Soft Matter and Biophysical Chemistry Award

September 21, 2017

### Michael Rubinstein: A Collaborative Approach to Soft-Matter Engineering
and Science

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

