

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Establishes Biomedical Engineering Partnership with Makerere University

September 27, 2016

Originally posted on the Duke Global Health Institute website

Duke students interested in biomedical engineering (BME) and global health now
have a new opportunity to fuse their interests in a collaborative trans-
continental partnership. The recently established Duke-Makerere University BME
Partnership will connect students and faculty in the BME program at Duke with
their peers at Makerere University (MUK) in Kampala, Uganda, to build teaching
capacity and design skills.

The program, initiated by BME professor William Reichert, aims to give
biomedical engineers and global health practitioners tools to design and
implement healthcare technologies in low-resource settings.

**COLLABORATIONS BETWEEN GLOBAL HEALTH AND BME AT DUKE**

The new partnership builds on a rich BME-global health environment already
present at Duke. Engineering World Health (EWH), founded by BME and global
health professor Robert Malkin, has served for several years as a union
between the two disciplines. EWH focuses on improving health through
engineering, especially in low and middle income countries. Now an independent
entity with over 25 chapters, EWH is known mostly for sending students to low-
resource settings to assess and repair medical equipment.

More recently, BME and global health professor Nimmi Ramanujam founded Pratt
and DGHI’s Center for Global Women’s Health Technologies (GWHT). The center
focuses on research and education relating to women’s cancers and maternal-
fetal health.

**CREATING A NEW COLLABORATION ACROSS DISCIPLINES AND ACROSS THE GLOBE**

Adding to the BME-global health collaborations at Duke, Reichert and BME Chair
Ashutosh Chilkoti spearheaded development of the Duke-MUK BME Partnership
after Reichert spent the 2014-2015 academic year as a Fulbright Scholar
teaching at MUK. Teaching and conducting a major curriculum revision
reinforced in Reichert the idea that intelligence and the capacity for hard
work are uniformly distributed characteristics, but access to opportunity is
the key global differentiator.

Reichert observed the hard work, dedication and sheer joy of learning of his
Ugandan students during his Fulbright. One day, for example, all of his
environmental engineering students showed up for a midterm exam despite the
outbreak of a student riot on campus. “Police were firing tear gas grenades
and rubber bullets while students were running amuck,” he recalled. “When I
got to the exam room, every single student in the class was there. That was a
group of students that values education!”

After his Fulbright experiences, Reichert’s professional priorities shifted
from domestic biomedical research to building BME capacity at MUK and in
Uganda. “The main deficit for the Makerere University BME program is the
extreme shortage of qualified instructors,” Reichert commented. “Since the
gateway degree for becoming an instructor is the Masters of Science (MS)
degree, setting up a program to enable Makerere BME grads to come here and get
an MS in BME seemed like a no-brainer.”

The partnership introduced an undergraduate senior design class and a graduate
program spanning both universities. These classes build BME capacity in Uganda
by training BME professionals and future MUK faculty. Reichert hopes to expand
the inventory of classes that are offered to students on both campuses as the
partnership grows.

**OPPORTUNITIES AT THE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE LEVELS**

The first Duke-MUK course, Biomaterials and Artificial Organs, was initially
offered in the fall of 2015 to about 25 Duke seniors and graduate students and
about 30 MUK students. In this class, Duke students have the opportunity to
immerse themselves in a semester-long group project with their Ugandan
counterparts. For example, Duke BME student Ashley Reid worked with five MUK
students on a project, “Orthopaedic Implant Supply Chain in Kampala, Uganda:
Public-Private Workarounds,” which was submitted to _BMC Health Services
Research_ for publication with Reid as first author.

Another course, Transcontinental Design, is offered to ten students in the
spring, including BME juniors and seniors and graduate students in BME and
global health. In this course, which includes a trip to Uganda, Duke students
vet and provide feedback on healthcare-related design project ideas submitted
by MUK students. The projects that are best suited for collaboration—where the
Duke students can provide meaningful design contribution and not just
consulting—move forward to the Duke-MUK collaboration phase. The selected
Duke-MUK teams then work together on technical solutions to healthcare needs
that are likely to be embraced by Ugandan clients.

The Duke BME Master of Science program is now open to MUK students who have
completed their undergraduate BME degree and who have been selected by a
committee of Duke and MUK faculty for the Duke-MUK Scholar Award that covers
all tuition, fees and living expenses. The students will spend two semesters
at Duke, studying biomedical instrumentation and health diagnostics that are
most critical to health in Uganda. The following summer, students will return
to MUK to complete their master’s dissertation in Kampala.

The first two MUK students participating in the graduate program, Kenneth
Rubango and Henry Kiwumulo, arrived at Duke in mid-August. Their dissertations
are being supervised by BME professors Roger Nightingale and Kathy
Nightingale.

**BUILDING COLLABORATIVE CAPACITY**

“Our main goal now is to vastly improve the communication piece,” Reichert
said. To help address this challenge, Reichert and Kearsley Stewart, associate
professor of global health, recently received funds from Bass Connections to
establish a video conferencing center in a room donated by the Makerere School
of Pharmacy.

The Duke-MUK BME Partnership currently has a five-year commitment from both
universities to enhance collaborative teaching and learning experiences. The
program is sponsored by the Duke BME Department, the Duke Office of the
Provost, the Duke Global Health Institute, the Pratt School of Engineering,
the Duke Graduate School, and the Duke Africa Initiative.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

