

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Alumni Profile: J. Michael Pearson

May 16, 2014

CEO, Valeant Pharma

**Graduation Year:** 1981

**Degree at Duke:** Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:** Mechanical Engineering Materials Science

**Career Highlights:**

  * CEO, Valeant Pharma

J. Michael Pearson started his Duke journey as an undergraduate student double
majoring in mechanical engineering and materials science and mathematics. He
describes his years at Duke as one of the best four years of his life because
of all the wonderful people, the terrific education, and of course basketball!
He met his wife Christine S. Pearson at Duke when he was a senior and she was
a freshman at Duke’s School of Nursing.

Pearson recalls how fun and memorable it was for every engineering student at
Duke to participate in a design contest, where they had to throw an egg from
the top of the red-brick engineering building, Hudson Hall, without breaking
it. He appreciated how Duke was wonderful in teaching students the balance
between work and social life. He was very happy to learn that there are still
lots of social activities at Pratt, such as the E-socials and the E-lympics,
and believed these are the things that will be remembered the most over the
years.

If he had to live his life again, he said that he would spend less time at
work and more time to play. “These are all trade-offs you have to learn, and
the early years of work are tougher; you need to do well. The quicker you
learn these trade-offs, the fewer mistakes you will make. No one does this for
you, you have to control your life yourself, make decisions individually, and
assume responsibility.”

Pearson graduated from Duke in 1981 summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa. He was
then offered a job as an engineer at what was called AT&T Long Lines during
that time. A year later, looking for more excitement, he went on to the school
of business at the University of Virginia, where he won the Shermet award and
earned his MBA in 1984. Thereafter, he pursued a career of 23 years at
McKinsey and Company, a global management consultancy firm, serving as a
director, member of the board of directors, head of the global pharmaceutical
practice, and head of McKinsey’s mid-Atlantic region.

When asked how the transition from science and engineering to business was for
him, he answered that Duke had provided him the best training for that
purpose, teaching him logical thinking and problem-solving. As a CEO, he was
required to solve complicated problems and to come up with creative solutions.
Engineering is a major that precisely teaches you these skills along with hard
work and discipline, Pearson explained.

In 2008 he left McKinsey and joined Valeant Pharmaceuticals International
Inc., a multinational specialty pharmaceutical company focusing on neurology
and dermatology therapeutic areas, as the chairman of the board and chief
executive officer. At Valeant he has been able to make the company a stock-
market favorite, raising the sales to $2.5 billion and acquiring 21 companies
in less than four years. The Wall Street Journal listed Pearson as one of the
best CEOs in 2008.

With his company’s R&D division in Durham and two of his children studying at
Duke as a freshman and a sophomore, Pearson visits Duke more often now.
Keeping his ties to his alma mater, he is on Fuqua’s Board of Visitors,
sponsors an athletic scholarship for Duke students, and contributes to Duke
basketball financially. He has made a gift of $15 million on behalf of his
wife to Duke’s School of Nursing in recognition of their recent advancements
towards improved health care. This generous gift has enabled the school to
name its building after his wife.

_Originally published in DukEngineer. Written by Nooshin Kiarashi, a third-
year PhD student in Electrical and Computer Engineering._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

