

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Soft Matter Symposium Attracts Worldwide Audience

October 20, 2021 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Duke Materials Initiative’s milestone event on polymer networks engages 300+
attendees from 16 nations

In another year of disrupted in-person conference travel due to the pandemic,
the Duke Materials Initiative (DMI) hosted its second highly successful all-
virtual scientific conference. The 2021 Duke Soft Matter Symposium: Polymer
Networks from Design to Application, held October 4-5, welcomed over 300
attendees from 16 nations on four continents.

“I was very impressed by the level of attendance throughout the event, the
thoughtful questions after the talks and the depth of the discussion after
each session,” said Stefan Zauscher, director of DMI and a professor in Duke
University’s Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science. “Many of my colleagues and friends attended, some from Europe.”

In fact, in addition to being widely dispersed across academic institutions in
the U.S. and Europe, attendees also hailed from Brazil, India, China and even
Kazakhstan. The speakers themselves represented eight universities.

The first speaker, Jian Ping Gong, an international leader in polymer
networks, presented via Zoom from Hokkaido University, in Sapporo, Japan, a
13-hour time difference. Gong is a member of the National Science Foundation-
funded Center for the Chemistry of Molecularly Optimized Networks (MONET), led
by Stephen Craig, Duke University’s William T. Miller Distinguished Professor
of Chemistry and one of the symposium organizers.

Craig, Zauscher and other organizers said the event exceeded their
expectations, which was to highlight one of Duke University’s strengths in
materials science and engineering—polymer network research—and to bring
together researchers, both inside and outside of Duke, from three distinctly
different niche areas of this research category to meet one another. These
three niches ordinarily may not collaborate on specific projects, but they can
benefit from knowing about each other’s work and make connections that bear
fruit in the future, said Michael Rubinstein, one of the symposium organizers,
leader of the Duke Soft Matter Center and the Aleksandar S. Vesic
Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science,
Biomedical Engineering, Chemistry and Physics.

Three invited speaker sessions over the two days each focused on one of the
three niches: “Molecular Design Principles,” “Non-Equilibrium Soft Matter in
Biology” and “Biomaterials for Health.” A fourth session featured 13
postdoctoral fellows and PhD candidates presenting work from their respective
Duke University labs for 10 minutes each. Finally, a diverse group of 19
graduate students from Duke and other universities, including one from the
Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, presented research posters in Zoom
breakout rooms.

“The event was terrific. I particularly enjoyed the open discussion segments,”
wrote Felipe Quiroz, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Georgia
Institute of Technology and Emory University, who was also one of the
symposium speakers and an active participant in many of the question-and-
answer sessions following speaker talks. Quiroz is a 2013 PhD graduate in
biomedical engineering from Duke University.

This event followed DMI’s all-virtual 2020 Hard Matter Workshop, the inaugural
signature event for the faculty collaborative, which focuses on elevating and
energizing the materials science and engineering ecosystem at Duke University
through collaboration among researchers across the Pratt School of
Engineering, Trinity College of Arts & Sciences, Duke School of Medicine and
Nicholas School of the Environment. That event also hosted invited speakers
and more than 300 attendees worldwide and focused on energy materials,
metamaterials and quantum materials research.

**_Check the Duke Materials Initiative website for future posting of videos of
speaker talks >>_**

## Related News

September 02, 2021 | Duke Today

### NSF Creates Polymer Chemistry Optimization Center at Duke for Future
Materials

December 16, 2020

### 2020 Triangle Hard Matter Workshop Was a Resounding Success

September 21, 2017

### Michael Rubinstein: A Collaborative Approach to Soft-Matter Engineering
and Science

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

