

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke/UNC Collaboration Trying to Fix Human Ailments at Molecular Level

April 21, 2015 | By Marla Vacek Broadfoot

Chance meeting at RDU blossoms into collaboration to repair genetic defect in
muscular dystrophy

_Editor's note: This is the fourth and final article in a series exploring the
Duke-UNC Collaborations funded through the Clinical and Translational Science
Awards (CTSAs) at Duke and UNC._

_Originally published on theDuke Translational Medical Institute website_

Anyone who has been sickened by the flu or a bout of food poisoning knows that
viruses and bacteria can be powerful adversaries. But in recent decades, they
have also become unlikely allies as scientists have turned bits and pieces of
these infectious agents into tools for understanding and possibly even
rewriting the human genome.

Researchers have gutted and replaced the insides of viruses with human genes,
fashioning miniature couriers that can travel into cells to replace defects
that underlie genetic diseases like hemophilia. They have also taken advantage
of bacteria’s ability to recognize and chop up the DNA of invading pathogens,
hijacking this defense system to edit the genome of any cell or species at
will.

Merging these two approaches – gene therapy and genome editing – could
revolutionize medicine by enabling clinicians to essentially fix human
ailments at the most basic molecular level. Recently, Duke’s Charles Gersbach,
PhD, and UNC’s Aravind Asokan, PhD, received a $50,000 grant to combine these
technologies into a completely new treatment for the progressive neuromuscular
disorder muscular dystrophy. The award is part of an effort by the sister
CTSAs to combine resources and expertise to tackle problems that impact human
health.

Despite working for neighboring institutions, it took a chance meeting at RDU
airport last May for Asokan and Gersbach to finally come face-to-face. They
were both waiting for their bags to come off the turnstile at RDU airport when
Asokan recognized Gersbach and congratulated him for getting the Outstanding
New Investigator Award at the recent American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy
meeting. Gersbach responded by congratulating Asokan for receiving the same
award the previous year, and then -- as scientists often do -- shifted the
conversation to the latest stumbling block in his research. He explained that
even though his laboratory had made a number of strides in genome editing, he
still hadn’t figured out a way to deliver the technology to cells that would
be safe and sustainable in actual patients.

Gersbach has been using a popular new technology -- which goes by the
cumbersome acronym CRISPR/Cas9 -- to change the DNA sequence of model
organisms and human cells. Thus far, he has reprogrammed this bacterial-based
system to correct the genetic defects that cause Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy
(DMD), the most common fatal genetic disease of childhood. Gersbach has shown
that the technique works in cultured muscle cells taken from patients with the
disease.

But taking the method from patient cells to actual patients is a big leap. In
the laboratory, Gersbach basically uses a jolt of electricity to punch holes
in the walls of the cultured cells so that the editing tools can easily access
the genome hidden inside. Efficient though that tactic might be, it is
obviously not practical for the clinic. Gersbach had been pondering more
patient-friendly alternatives when Asokan approached him that spring day.

“I feel very fortunate to have a collaborator like Asokan nearby at UNC, who
is one of the world’s experts on gene delivery to muscle,” said Gersbach, an
assistant professor at the Duke Pratt School of Engineering. “He has designed
viruses that can deliver genes specifically to the muscle and the heart, which
is also affected in this disease. The tools he has created are really valuable
for us to be able to translate our results to human application.”

Asokan has spent most of his career developing new and improved versions of
adeno-associated virus or AAV, a relatively harmless carrier that is already
present in the majority of the human population. The virus has been used to
safely deliver gene therapy in clinical trials for a number of diseases,
including eye disease, congestive heart failure, Parkinson’s disease, and
muscular dystrophy.

Through this new collaboration, the researchers are packaging the genome
editing machinery developed in the Gersbach lab into the latest forms of AAV
developed in the Asokan lab. Though their results are still preliminary, the
approach has shown promise in mouse models of DMD. The researchers believe the
technique could one day be used not just to correct this one disease-causing
mutation, but to change any sequence in the genome.

“I look at this as the perfect marriage of two sets of tools, without which
neither field could succeed,” said Asokan, an associate professor at the UNC
School of Medicine. “That union does raise a unique set of safety
considerations that we need to assess. But once we do, it has the potential to
create a new gene therapy paradigm that will change the way that we approach
human disease.”

The new team of Gersbach and Asokan are one of four to recently receive
collaborative grants from the Duke University Translational Medicine Institute
(DTMI) and the North Carolina Translational and Clinical Sciences (NC TraCS)
Institute. These DTRI Duke/UNC Collaborative Pilot Program awards place
particular emphasis on basic research in a variety of disciplines that address
the development of therapies, diagnostics or devices applicable to human
disease and clinical trials.

UNC and Duke are the only two academic institutions in North Carolina that are
members of the CTSA program, a national consortium created to improve the way
biomedical research is conducted across the country. The CTSA program is
funded by the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (NCATS), a
part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH).

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

