

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Launches Graduate Certificate in AI for Product Innovation

May 29, 2020

Designed for working professionals, the new program's online classes start in
August 2020

Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning are creating immense
opportunities for innovation in products and services across every industry,
from health care to energy to manufacturing—and beyond.

Remarkable growth in the availability of raw data, combined with major
advances in computational power and new modeling techniques and tools, have
driven a boom in the AI/ML field. To remain competitive, organizations are
racing to leverage the value of their data through the application of advanced
analytics.

> “The level of depth, faculty interaction and high-quality virtual approach
> set Duke's apart from other AI certificates.”
>
> **Jon Reifschneider**  
>  Certificate Program Director

To meet this challenge, Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering is
launching in summer 2020 an online Graduate Certificate in AI Foundations for
Product Innovation (AIPI) that will fuel innovation by equipping participants
with AI/machine learning skills and a strong understanding of how the
technologies can be applied to build new products and services.

Designed for working professionals, the online program can be completed in 15
months and requires no application fee or entrance exam.

With Duke Engineering’s world-class machine-learning research and teaching,
combined with Duke’s strong interdisciplinary environment and close industry
relations, the school is uniquely positioned to prepare high-potential future
leaders from technical fields in the application of AI, said Jon
Reifschneider, the AIPI certificate program’s director.

“Employees who have a sophisticated understanding of AI and machine learning
applications can provide unique perspectives on challenges in their field—not
only on potential solutions, but, more importantly, on what challenges
organizations are able to address,” he said.

Although engineers and scientists skilled in machine learning principles are
in high demand, business leaders find there is currently insufficient talent
with these critical aptitudes. Through the AIPI certificate, Duke aims to
address the imbalance between demand for professionals with strong AI skills
and the available supply.

Duke’s AIPI certificate is designed to build graduates’ artificial
intelligence expertise and value within their organization and industry.
Certificate students will complete a preparatory online bootcamp and a series
of four core courses designed with input from industry experts and structured
around the product development process.

While the program allows participants to build foundational AI skills without
requiring the commitment of a master’s program, students who wish to continue
their studies into a full Master of Engineering in AI for Product Innovation
will be able to apply their certificate credits towards completion of the Duke
degree program, which launches in Fall 2021.

“The level of depth, faculty interaction and high-quality virtual approach of
Duke’s AIPI certificate program set it apart from other AI certificates,” said
Reifschneider. “Courses go beyond basic theory to focus on real-world AI
business and product applications--which is ideal for professionals who want
to acquire tools that they can immediately apply in their day-to-day work.”

> The graduate certificate can be completed in 15 months—and requires no
> application fee or entrance exam

Courses cover key aspects of the product development process for building AI-
enabled products and, in addition to core technical knowledge, students will
gain an understanding of the business, legal and ethical aspects of utilizing
AI. In-depth faculty engagement and virtual connections with other Duke
students will offer AIPI participants valuable opportunities to expand their
professional networks. Reifschneider said that he expects Duke AIPI’s first
class to be composed of engineers and scientists who want to gain AI skills to
apply in their current organization or move into new roles that require these
capacities.

The program is now accepting applications for August 2020. For details, visit
meng.duke.edu »

Find More and Learn How to Apply

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

