

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke BME Teams Triumph in Design Competitions

June 5, 2020

Student design teams earn awards and recognition in three design competitions

Through the expanding design curriculum in Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering, students develop practical design skills that allow
them to turn innovative ideas into impressive prototypes. Recently, multiple
student teams have used their skills to succeed in major design competitions.

One team of graduate students from the recently launched Duke Design Health
program received second place at both the 2020 Johns Hopkins Healthcare Design
Competition in the Advanced Health Category, and at the Innovate Carolina
Student Competition. The Duke team was recognized for their EmboGuard project.

Three teams of master’s students in the Medical Device Design program were
accepted to present in the University of Minnesota’s Design of Medical Devices
Conference. The first team, led by Anna Matthews, Nicolas Swischuk, Brandon
Tramontana and Michael Wong, were recognized for their device that could
rapidly diagnose pleural effusion, which occurs when excess fluid builds up in
the lungs. Jennifer DeLuca, Anish Nigade, Aaron Czeisperger and Adrianna
Battle showcased their bioptome design, which involved a rotating, steerable
pinching tool that could store samples of endomyocardial heart tissue for
biopsies. A team led by Rosa Araiza, Chirag Gyani, Yuhan Liu and Craig Warlen
presented their project, titled “A Dynamic Roadmap for Interventional Vascular
Applications.” This team was also a finalist in the virtual competition.

This design success was not limited to graduate student teams, with two teams
of undergraduate students receiving first and second place in the
undergraduate track in the Innovate Carolina Student Competition. Rebecca
Seikel, Will Inigo, Rick Lyon and Gabriel Carusetta earned first place for
their project, “Anteroinferior Shoulder Reduction.” Morgan McCloud, Sophie
Vincoff and Kristie Chen earned second place for their project about improving
cricothyrotomy training on mannequins. A third team, comprised of BME Design
Fellows Jack Dozier and Ben Wesorick, won the NC Biotechnology Center Award
for their project, "An Ultraviolet Light Device for Surgical Drain
Disinfection." The duo received follow-up translational research grant funding
for their Design Fellows project, which was initially subsidized by MEDx.

And, a team from Duke Engineering’s First-Year Design course, led by BME
Professor of the Practice Ann Saterbak, was recognized at the Global Social
Innovation Challenge at the University of San Diego for their project that
involved turning a shipping container into a functioning design space for
resource-limited settings.

“This success speaks to the strength of the design program in Duke BME,” says
Mark Palmeri, an associate professor of the practice in Duke BME and member of
the team involved in developing the design curriculum. “The ability to bring a
design to life is a ubiquitous skillset, and when students graduate and go on
to jobs, it’s programs like this that allow them to hit the ground running.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

