

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Electric Vehicle Takes First Place at Shell Eco-Marathon Americas 2017

May 2, 2017

Student-built car gets electric equivalent of nearly 10,000 mpg

The Pratt School of Engineering-based Duke Electric Vehicles student club took
first place in its category at the Shell Eco-Marathon Americas, the premier
challenge for high-efficiency prototype electric vehicles held on April 30 in
Detroit, Mich.

The team credited aerodynamic redesign and on-the-spot data analysis as the
winning factors.

The group’s student-built electric vehicle posted a score of 296 miles per
kilowatt hour—or the equivalent of 9,976 miles per gallon (MPGe)—besting teams
from Oregon State University, the University of Colorado Boulder and Brazil’s
Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina.

The key to victory, said co-president Patrick Grady, was a new telemetry and
real-time data analysis system created by first-year students Yunfan Zhang and
Shijia Hu with Grady’s guidance.

“We were able to see this data live, and make changes immediately—that made
the difference,” said Grady, an electrical and computer engineering student.
“Other teams simply didn’t have the advantage that data gave us.”

The pit crew used wirelessly connected laptops to track power spikes and
immediately advise driver Caroline Ayanian, a mechanical engineering student,
on how to regulate the throttle. Inside the vehicle, Ayanian had a display
showing a simplified version of the data, such as how many watts of power she
was drawing from the battery.

All that information made it possible to make the best possible decisions,
optimizing the driving of the vehicle even as the weather worsened. The wind
picked up, causing more drag, and the air temperature turned colder, a
condition which can affect battery performance.

After each trial of the Eco-Marathon course, data was exported from the
vehicle and subjected to further analysis and decision making in preparation
for the next run. The team improved performance with each of five consecutive
six-mile trials—a difficult and rare feat.

“Being able to harness this ordinarily complex data into simple and effective
tips for our driver and pit crew allowed us to improve on each run,” said team
member Ismail Iberkak, a mechanical engineering student. “We can definitely
see an autonomous version of our vehicle in our future allowing for even
greater efficiency improvements.”

The Duke team has performed well in recent Eco-Marathon competitions, posting
third- and second-place finishes, but was committed to taking first this year.
The team found ways to add to their telemetry and live data analysis by
reducing the vehicle’s weight and introducing interchangeable parts, making
design modifications easier and faster.

The team also created a relationship with efficient-car builders at James B.
Dudley High School in Greensboro, NC, visiting the high school and hosting the
next generation of engineers at Duke's garage in The Foundry, an innovative
student maker-space in Gross Hall where students can build co-curricular and
entrepreneurial projects.

“Around 90 percent of the car was made entirely by us,” said co-president
Aniruddh Marellapudi, a biomedical engineering student. “Our attention to
detail over the last year meant that every single aspect of the vehicle
performed better this year. I am so proud of our entire team.”

The team’s major sponsors are the Pratt School of Engineering, the Duke
Engineering Alumni Association, the Lord Foundation, N.C. Space Grant and
General Motors.

## Photos on Facebook

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

