

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Quantum Center Kicks Off

April 13, 2022

Quantum information enthusiasts from around the world gathered in Durham to
learn about the Duke Quantum Center's unique user facility

The Duke Quantum Center (DQC) launched in 2020 with the idea of making its
quantum computers available to anyone with an intractable problem to solve.
Users from business, government and academia, whose challenges might range
from modeling exotic materials to solving theoretical problems in nuclear
physics, would be able to leverage the expertise of DQC’s team of world-class
quantum information scientists and engineers.

Now, the idea is a reality. DQC officially kicked off with a two-day workshop
last week, introducing more than 100 current and potential collaborators from
around the world to the unique capabilities of its quantum user facility. The
event was held in downtown Durham’s historic Chesterfield Building—a cigarette
factory turned state-of-the-art lab space—where DQC is headquartered.

Vinik Dean of Engineering Jerome Lynch, Dean of Trinity College of Arts &
Sciences Valerie Ashby, Senior Advisor for Science and Technology Sandy
Williams and IonQ CEO Peter Chapman gave opening remarks before two days of
presentations from quantum information experts. Topics ranged from quantum
computer design and co-design to proposed applications. Participants were able
to tour DQC’s labs and attend a poster session between presentations.

Since DQC launched in 2020 with support from the U.S. Department of Energy, a
team of world-class researchers from across Duke University has coalesced
around the mission of designing quantum computers for custom applications. The
group includes faculty from the Departments of Physics, Computer Science, and
Electrical and Computer Engineering, and is led by Duke ECE professor
Christopher Monroe. With his Duke ECE colleague Jungsang Kim, Monroe also
cofounded a publicly traded quantum computing company, IonQ, **** which claims
a world record for quantum computing speed.

More News from Duke ECE

## Related News

February 18, 2022 | Duke Government Relations

### Quantum Computing and Its Growing Presence at Duke: Get to Know Crystal
Noel

May 21, 2021 | Duke Government Relations

### On the Hill: Chris Monroe Briefs Congress on Quantum Computing’s Role in
Nation’s Scientific Computing Enterprise

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

