

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Launches Autism Research App with Global Reach

October 15, 2015

Families can participate in study with free download

_Story also appears on Duke Today_

A team of researchers, engineers and software developers from Duke University
and the Duke Medical Center has introduced a free iOS app to learn more about
autism in young children living around the world.

Beginning Thursday, a ResearchKit app called “Autism & Beyond” is being
offered from the Apple App Store for use on iOS devices. ResearchKit is a new
open-source framework developed by Apple that allows researchers to create
app-based studies with a global reach.

The free program from Duke is not a diagnostic tool. It is intended to test
the reliability of smart phone questionnaires and video analysis of facial
expressions as a possible screening tool for autism and other developmental
disorders of children.

Parents and children will interact with questionnaires and videos on the app
and then receive some feedback, such as how to deal with tantrums if that’s an
issue, or what the child’s apparent risk for autism might be. In some cases,
families will be encouraged to seek further consultation with their health
care providers.

“You can’t diagnose a child with a video screen,” said Helen Egger, M.D.,
chief of Duke’s Division of Child and Family Mental Health and Developmental
Neuroscience and a co-leader of the research team. “We’re interested in
getting to a place where we could use the data we’re collecting to give
individual advice. But we’re not there yet.”

“Our goal is to develop a screening, like hearing or eyesight at schools,”
said Guillermo Sapiro, Ph.D., a professor of electrical and computer
engineering, biomedical engineering and computer science. “They don’t get
glasses; they get a referral.”

The app was developed over four months of intense work by a large team of Duke
programmers, scientists and students who worked in close partnership with
Apple. The team behind this app envisions developing related apps to study
temper tantrums, picky eating and anxiety, Egger said.

With hundreds of millions of iPhones and iPads in use around the world, app-
based health studies such as this enable researchers to measure more diverse
patient populations faster and more affordably, said Ricky Bloomfield, M.D.,
director of mobile technology strategy for Duke Medicine. Patient recruitment
and informed consent should also be easier through the devices, he said.

In addition to Egger, Sapiro and Bloomfield, the Autism & Beyond team has been
led by Geraldine Dawson, Ph.D., director of the Duke Center for Autism and
Brain Development and mathematician and engineer Robert Calderbank, Ph.D., who
is director of the Information Initiative at Duke.

The app is intended for use with children ages 1 to 6. “Early detection of
children with autism can help us intervene earlier, which greatly improves
outcomes,” Dawson said. The Autism & Beyond app is a six-month study, with
tests administered at the beginning, three months and six months. Each test
takes about 20 minutes to complete.

After a guided set of screens that inform users of the purpose of the research
and ask their consent to participate and share their data, the app combines
questionnaires and short videos to gather information about a child.

Most of Duke’s innovation comes in the video portion of the app. As the child
sits on the parent’s lap watching four short video clips, the device’s user-
facing “selfie” camera records the child’s reactions to the videos, which are
designed to make them smile, laugh and be surprised.

Analytical software in the app marks key landmarks on the child’s face
automatically and assesses his or her emotional responses. For example, in a
short video of bubbles floating across the screen, the video algorithm is
looking for movements of the face that would indicate joy.

“It’s very visual,” said Sapiro, who has been leading efforts to interpret
children’s videotaped behavior with software.

With permission from the app’s users, data captured by Autism & Beyond is
uploaded to secure servers at Duke for analysis by the team. Users also have
the option not to share video of their child, only the computer-generated
facial landmarks. Duke is also hosting a website and hotline number for help.
“We are trying to be overprotective,” Sapiro said.

The researchers stress that the goal of the app at this stage is to see
whether it works well enough to gather useful data, not to provide at-home
diagnosis.

_Example of what children might see during a session with the new app._

"The goal is to see—based on things we already know from our research—whether
these interactions elicit certain ephemeral behaviors in the child,” Egger
said. A computer seeing at 30 frames per second, for example, can detect
better than the human eye whether the child is slightly slower to smile, Egger
said.

Automated analysis will also be much faster and cheaper than the labor-
intensive analysis of video now done by trained people, Dawson said.

For now, study participants receive feedback on their child’s results on the
questionnaires, and resources for coping with the challenges they may be
experiencing, Egger said.

But in the long run, self-administered tests like this offer the promise of
broader access to mental health screening. “It is simply not possible to train
enough people to meet the need for early childhood diagnosis,” Egger said.
“Seventy out of the 100 counties in North Carolina don’t have a child
psychiatrist, for example. This may be the only way to get screening out to
more people.”

The Duke team has been working with colleagues in China to roll out a Mandarin
version of the app in the world’s most populous market. A team at the
University of Cape Town in South Africa is eager to try the app, and a
partnership is being established in Argentina to create a Spanish language
version of the app for the North and South American Latino population, Sapiro
said.

“We’re hoping this app will increase access to mental health and autism
screening in different cultures around the world,” Egger said.

**LEARN MORE**

Guillermo Sapiro discusses his work on using software to interpret videos for
autism screening (30 minutes)

Background news stories from Duke Bass Connections

Apple ResearchKit

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

