

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineers Abroad

July 15, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Pratt undergraduates are taking their education global in record numbers--and
reaping the rewards

After the economic downturn of the late 2000s hit America, it became difficult
for college students to find jobs—not only new graduates, but summer
internship seekers as well. Many students, however, found a silver lining.
Instead of moping about poolside for three months, they flocked to different
countries—and undergraduates at Pratt were no exception.

The number of Pratt students studying abroad during the summer nearly doubled
from 2009 to 2010, jumping from 19 to 34, and has remained high despite the
stabilizing economy. And those are just the numbers for the summer
term—foreign studies are up during the school year as well.

The joint trends have led to 103 students studying abroad during the 2013-2014
academic year, a record for Pratt and double the number from a decade before.
Thanks to these consistent numbers, roughly 30 percent of Pratt’s Class of
2014 studied abroad at some point during their undergraduate career—a number
far higher than at most other engineering schools.

And that’s a good thing.

“Engineers aren’t just working in a U.S. environment anymore,” said Amanda
Kelso, head of Duke’s Global Education Office, which promotes undergraduate
study abroad opportunities. “Work teams are located around the world.
Engineers are going to be on conference calls with teams in Israel, China, and
Japan all at once. Rarely will people be working on a product that is entirely
made and sold in a single country. It’s imperative for engineers to have a
cultural understanding.”

**A Summer Dip into the Humanities**

Not only are more Pratt students studying abroad, they’re also studying in
more destinations, particularly in the summer. This year, students are
visiting Australia, China, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Morocco, Singapore,
South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. And because
there are no approved foreign engineering classes available during the summer,
students are opting to round out their knowledge base in a wide variety of
fields.

Safkat Islam, a rising junior in electrical and computer engineering who’s
also working on a markets and management studies certificate, spent the summer
of 2013 learning about philosophy in its birthplace. His class traveled to
Greece to learn about the origins of philosophy and how it affected the places
and monuments of the time.

In 2014, Islam is taking business courses in Geneva that will count toward his
markets and management studies certificate. He envisions a potential career
path in consulting, but believes his experiences abroad will be beneficial no
matter where he ends up.

“I wanted to broaden my academic experience by branching out and learning more
about other fields and more about the world,” said Islam. “The courses are
helping to keep my writing skills fresh, too, as there isn’t a lot of writing
in engineering, especially in the technical classes.”

**Adding Culture Outside of the Classroom**

The number of students studying abroad in the fall semester is also up, rising
from 38 to 59 between 2011 and 2013. This trend is especially apparent in the
mechanical engineering and materials science department, where the tally has
risen from 18 students five years ago to 31 this past year—due largely to the
department certifying more foreign programs and making more classes at Duke
available during both fall and spring semesters, giving students flexibility
during the school year. ****

Because there are fewer engineering courses available abroad in the fall and
spring semesters, however, the variety of destinations during the school year
has not increased. Longstanding programs in Australia and the United Kingdom
that offer engineering classes have dominated the fall semester, attracting
more than 70 percent of study-abroad students in the fall semester of 2010—a
trend that Pratt is encouraging students to break out of.

About five years ago, three students recently did just that by taking a chance
and signing up for a then-newly approved Georgia Tech program in Lorraine,
France.

Katrina Wisdom, a rising junior in mechanical engineering at the time, wanted
an opportunity to use the French she had studied since 7th grade. She
convinced two of her friends, Kevin Lieberman and Amanda Britt, also juniors
in mechanical engineering, to join her.

****“We were within a three-hour train ride from five different countries, so
we could take the train and see different cultures and learn about different
people,” said Lieberman, now a senior associate analyst at Metron Aviation.
Lieberman said that he struck out on his own and immersed himself in the local
culture by talking to the townspeople while doing a research project on the
history of a local community. Along with Wisdom, the pair also reached out to
the local synagogue and experienced a French Chanukah as well as candle
lightings and a Shabbat dinner at a youth rabbi’s house.

Britt bought a train pass good for 10 trips throughout Europe and took the
opportunity to visit several other countries, including voyages to see friends
she had made the previous summer during a Duke Engage trip to Nicaragua.

All of them have found the experience well worth the time and effort.

“A lot of people think engineers only need to deal with numbers and equations
and don’t need to bother with the softer sciences, but that’s so far from the
truth,” said Wisdom, now a graduate research fellow at Stanford University.
“In an increasingly global economy, everyone is going to be working or
conducting research with people of different ethnicities, and studying abroad
gives you the empathy to more easily recognize when your foreign peers or co-
workers are uncomfortable or unfamiliar with domestic customs.”

“Having to overcome challenges like navigating the grocery store or learning a
foreign train system was a huge benefit,” echoed Britt, now a research and
development engineer at Edwards Lifesciences. “And it also helped me become
fluent in French, which was extremely valuable when my company asked me to go
to France. I was able to speak with the doctors I was interviewing in their
native tongue. It was an amazing way to connect with them, and I would not
have felt comfortable doing that had it not been for my time living in France
while at Duke.”

**Looking for the Next Lorraine**

Word spread about the fantastic experiences had by these three pioneers, and
the program’s enrollment jumped to 15 by 2013. It’s a trend that will
hopefully continue, not just in the Georgia Tech Lorraine program, but in
opportunities yet to be discovered.

“I think having a global experience before you graduate makes you more
marketable to industry,” said Linda Franzoni, dean for undergraduate education
at Pratt. “But I also think they want students who are open-minded enough to
get out of their comfort zone, like what Kevin, Amanda, and Katrina did. If
your experience abroad is really the experience of a tourist with a group of
friends, it’s not the same thing as the single student who has to struggle
with the mass transit system or getting along with people who aren’t like you.

“What I love to hear is when somebody is interested in a particular topic or
technical area and looks for a place to study abroad where there is expertise
in that area,” continued Franzoni. “Instead of studying that topic for one
week in a class at Duke, the student could decide to go to Iceland, for
example, because geothermal energy is studied in-depth there. What employer
wouldn’t want to hire that person?”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

