

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Celebrates the Class of 2021

May 12, 2021

During May 2-8, Duke's Pratt School of Engineering celebrated the achievements
of 771 new Duke Engineers

Nearly 800 undergraduate and graduate engineering students earned their
degrees from Duke University this month. Many graduates attended the first in-
person commencement exercises in nearly two years. Families and friends around
the world watched live online, and thousands more watched the video replay of
the ceremony in the hours and days after the ceremony.

For the Class of 2021, Duke and the Pratt School of Engineering planned
limited, in-person commencement ceremonies:

  * Undergraduates gathered on Sunday, May 2, in Wallace Wade Stadium
  * Engineering master's students were celebrated on Monday, May 3, in Cameron
    Indoor Stadium
  * Recognition for PhD graduates was organized by Duke's Graduate School
    during an online ceremony on Sunday, May 8

Photos, Video & More

  * Watch video, including a special message from faculty and staff, on the
    Duke Engineering YouTube channel »

  * Browse and download photos from the May 2 ceremony on Duke's Commencement
    2021 website »
  * Browse Class of 2021 awards and honors »

## Facts & Figures

For the 2020-2021 academic year, the faculty of the Pratt School of
Engineering awarded:

  * 88 PhDs
  * 200 Master of Science
  * 76 Master of Engineering
  * 106 Master of Engineering Management, Campus program
  * 24 Master of Engineering Management, Online
  * 277 Bachelor of Science in Engineering

Altogether, the Duke Engineering Class of 2021 includes 771 graduates.

( _Please note: These figures were updated on May 13, 2021 to reflect full
2020-2021 academic year totals._ )

## Congratulations from Dean Bellamkonda

> “The world needs individuals and teams who are unafraid to make the world
> better, who don’t wait for others to act or invent a new way. It needs YOU
> to be outrageously ambitious for yourself and the person you can be.”
>
> **Ravi V. Bellamkonda** | Vinik Dean of Engineering

## Class of 2021 Awards and Honors

### PhD Awards

### Department of Biomedical Engineering

#### Doctoral Dissertation Award

  * Chia-Han Chiang
  * Sean Hunter Kelly

* * *

### Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering

#### Outstanding Scholar Award

  * Christopher Luke Krapu
  * Tongshu Zheng

* * *

### Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering

#### Outstanding Dissertation Award

  * Linghao Song

#### Outstanding Service Award

  * Ruren Zhang

* * *

### Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

#### Outstanding Dissertation Award

  * Victor Wen-zhe Yu
  * Peiran Zhang

### Undergraduate Awards

### Pratt School Awards

#### Walter J. Seeley Scholastic Award

_Presented annually by the Engineering Student Government to the member of the
graduating class who has achieved the highest scholastic average in all
subjects, and who has shown diligence in pursuit of an engineering education.
Initiated to honor the spirit of academic excellence and professional
diligence demonstrated by the late Dean Walter J. Seeley._

  * Xiying Deng
  * Boyu (Tony) Guo
  * Audrey Noel McManemin
  * Jason Kent Stranne

#### Otto Meier, Jr. Tau Beta Pi Award

_Presented in recognition of Dr. Meier’s leadership in establishing the North
Carolina Gamma Chapter on January 10, 1948, and his continuous service until
April 19, 1975, as the chapter advisor. Given annually to the graduating
member of Tau Beta Pi who best symbolizes the distinguished scholarship and
exemplary character required for membership._

  * William Robert Durbin

#### Pratt School of Engineering Student Service Award

_Established in 1978 and given to graduating seniors who, by contributions of
time, effort and spirit, have significantly benefitted the community of the
Pratt School of Engineering._

  * Samuel Sydney Rabinowitz

* * *

### Biomedical Engineering

#### da Vinci Award

_Presented to the Biomedical Engineering senior with the most outstanding
academic record, as determined by a faculty committee. Commemorates the
contributions of Leonardo da Vinci in laying the foundation of the mechanistic
study of human life._

  * Boyu (Tony) Guo
  * Jason Kent Stranne

#### Helmholtz Award

_Given to a graduating senior who presents the best research project, as
judged by department faculty. Commemorates the work of Hermann von Helmholtz
in laying the foundation of biomedical engineering._

  * Stephanie Ann Crater

#### Edward D. "Ned" Light Memorial Award

_Given to a Pratt Research Fellow in biomedical engineering with the best
engineering design project, as judged by a faculty committee. Established in
2012 in memory of Ned Light, who worked for at Duke 22 years —pioneering
research in real-time 3D ultrasound imaging and mentoring a host of
undergraduate students both in the lab and in life skills._

  * Emily Cloud Barre

#### Theo C. Pilkington Memorial Award

_Established in 1993 by the Whitaker Foundation as an endowment award in
memory of Dr. Pilkington, founding chairman of the Department of Biomedical
Engineering. The recipient is selected at the end of the junior year and the
award is given in recognition of outstanding perseverance and accomplishment
in the study of biomedical engineering._

  * Canyon Fray Duncan

* * *

### Civil & Environmental Engineering

#### American Society of Civil Engineering Outstanding Senior Prize

_Presented annually to a graduating civil engineering senior in recognition of
an exceptional, positive impact on the Duke student chapter of the American
Society of Civil Engineering._

  * Samantha Renee Wind

#### William Brewster Snow Environmental Engineering Award

_Established in 1979 and presented annually to seniors who have demonstrated
academic excellence, interest, and enthusiasm in the study of environmental
engineering._

  * Renata Rae Starostka

#### Aubrey E. Palmer Award

_Established in 1980 and presented annually to a civil engineering or
environmental engineering senior in recognition of outstanding academic
achievement. Selection is made by the faculty of the Department of Civil &
Environmental Engineering._

  * Samantha Renee Wind

#### Eric I. Pas Award

_Established in 1998 in memory of Dr. Pas, former director of undergraduate
studies in Civil & Environmental Engineering, and presented to the graduating
civil or environmental engineering senior judged by the faculty to have
conducted the most outstanding independent study project._

  * Caroline Lenehan Heitmann
  * Renata Rae Starostka

* * *

### Electrical & Computer Engineering

#### David Randall Fuller Prize for Achievement in Electrical and Computer
Engineering

_Presented annually to the graduating senior who has shown the most
improvement in academic performance over the first three years._

  * Kabe Gregg Webster

#### George Sherrerd III Memorial Award in Electrical and Computer Engineering

_Awarded annually to the senior in electrical and computer engineering who, in
the opinion of the Electrical & Computer Engineering Faculty, who has attained
the highest level of scholastic achievement in all subjects and has
simultaneously has rendered significant service to the Pratt School of
Engineering and the university at large. Established in 1958 by the parents of
Class of 1955 graduate George Sherrerd III, to recognize outstanding
undergraduate scholarship._

  * Patrick Liu

#### Marie Foote Reel Undergraduate Research Award

_Awarded each year to the most outstanding undergraduate research project and
presentation as judged by the faculty in Duke Electrical & Computer
Engineering as part of the Graduation with Departmental Distinction
presentation session. Established in 2021 in honor of electrical engineer
Marie Foote Reel '46, one of the first women to graduate from Duke’s College
of Engineering._

  * Natalia Androsz

#### Charles Rowe Vail Memorial Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching Award

_Established in 1997 by former students and colleagues of Charles Vail, a
graduate of the class of 1937, a professor from 1939-1967, and chair of the
Department of Electrical Engineering from 1956-1964, recognizes the most
outstanding undergraduate teaching assistant in the Department of Electrical &
Computer Engineering._

  * Anshuman Dwibhashi
  * Patrick Liu
  * Evelyn Anastasia Putri

* * *

### Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

#### Pi Tau Sigma Scholarship Award

_Established in memory of T.C. Heyward, Sr., and presented annually by Pi Tau
Sigma to an outstanding senior in Mechanical Engineering at Duke. Selection by
a committee of the engineering faculty is based on academic excellence,
engineering ability, and leadership._

  * Nicole Danielle Patterson
  * Diego Andre Salgado
  * Matthew Thomas Urke

#### Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Faculty Award

_Presented annually in recognition of academic excellence to the graduating
Mechanical Engineering seniors who have attained the highest level of
scholastic achievement, as determined by the faculty._

  * Trevor Drake Fowler
  * Audrey Noel McManemin
  * Elizabeth Fairley Thoren

#### Raymond C. Gaugler Award in Materials Science & Engineering

  * Eric T. Chang

### Graduated with Departmental Distinction

### Biomedical Engineering

_* The Howard G. Clark Award_

  * Rivka Becky Arbiv
  * Emily Cloud Barre
  * Erin Elizabeth Brown
  * Stephanie Ann Crater
  * Craig James Cronin
  * Christopher John Davis*
  * Wendy Dong*
  * William Frederick Herbst*
  * Geovanni L. Janer Carattini*
  * Ruopu Jiao*
  * Matthew Harrison Kleiser
  * Allison Li*
  * Austin Wen Feng Li
  * Megan Lynn Libke
  * Rohin Maganti*
  * Rees Patrick Ridout
  * Natalie Shea Wilkinson

* * *

### Civil & Environmental Engineering

  * Caroline Lenehan Heitmann
  * Alyvia Grace Schaad
  * Renata Rae Starostka

* * *

### Electrical & Computer Engineering

  * Abebe Misganaw Amare
  * Natalia Androsz
  * Nathaniel Yoon Choe
  * Dhruv A. Dadhania
  * Anshuman Dwibhashi
  * Emery Elizabeth Geyer
  * Patrick Liu
  * David Arthur Miron
  * Alex Qiao
  * Max Aaron Smith
  * Kunal Upadya
  * John Stephen Wood Jr.

* * *

### Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

  * Eric T Chang
  * Ryan Luke Gex
  * Matthew Alec Jaynes
  * Pengcheng Liang
  * Nicole Danielle Patterson
  * Yukai Qian
  * Diego Andre Salgado
  * William Avery Smith
  * Robert David Madison Smoot
  * Matthew Thomas Urke

### Undergraduate Fellowships and Honors

### Pratt Research Fellows

  * Emily Cloud Barre
  * Erin Elizabeth Brown
  * Eric T. Chang
  * Nathaniel Yoon Choe
  * Wendy Dong
  * Taylor Skye Huie
  * Geovanni L. Janer Carattini
  * Ruopu Jiao
  * Matthew Harrison Klesier
  * Pengchen Liang
  * Benjamin Joseph Rosen
  * Corey Alan Simmerer

* * *

### Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenge Scholars

  * Alex Kim Choi
  * Akylah Reiyani Cox
  * Caroline Lenehan Heitmann
  * Alyvia Grace Schaad

* * *

### BME Design Fellows

  * Robert James Baldoni, Jr.
  * Jacqueline Marie Contento
  * Lia Victoria Cueto
  * Mia Isabelle de Leon
  * Diego Alberto Elmufdi
  * Parker Catharine Faircloth-Henise
  * Rishika Vinay Gundi
  * Lillian Anna Hiser
  * Bradley A. Howard
  * Taylor Skye Huie
  * Abinaya Lakshmanan
  * Megan Lynn Libke
  * Polin Liu
  * Neil Atwater Marks
  * Kieryn Elizabeth Ota
  * Vincent Ivan Peng
  * Evelyn Anastasia Putri
  * Nami C. Reddy
  * Nicholas T. Schiciano
  * Clayton Mitchell Shafer
  * Aidan Michael Therien
  * Natalie Shea Wilkinson

* * *

### Tau Beta Pi

_Tau Beta Pi is the oldest engineering honor society and the second oldest
collegiate honor society in the United States. It honors engineering students
in American universities who have shown a history of academic achievement as
well as a commitment to personal and professional integrity._

  * Abebe Misganaw Amare
  * Ayooluwa Eniola Balogun
  * Itamar Menashe Barak
  * Emily Cloud Barre
  * Erin Elizabeth Brown
  * Nathaniel Yoon Choe
  * Alex Kim Choi
  * Stephanie Ann Crater
  * Craig James Cronin
  * Emery Elizabeth Geyer
  * Ian James Hanus
  * Yoav Kargon
  * Timothy Daniel Kollar
  * Austin Wen Feng Li
  * Pengcheng Liang
  * Polin Liu
  * Rohin Maganti
  * Neil Atwater Marks
  * David Arthur Miron
  * Natalie Elizabeth Novitsky
  * Evelyn Anastasia Putri
  * Rees Patrick Ridout
  * Diego Andre Salgado
  * Christopher Jimin Shin
  * Corey Alan Simmerer
  * Hongxuan Wang
  * Natalie Shea Wilkinson
  * Samantha Renee Wind

## Related News

April 21, 2021

### Pursuing Research: 2021 Pratt Fellows

January 21, 2021

### Construction Transforms Campus—and Students

November 17, 2020

### Duke Ph.D. Students Find Unexpected Benefits in an Unusual Summer

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

