

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Joins New Carolina Center on Road Safety

December 12, 2016

Duke engineers to lead research on the safety of driverless cars

_Originally reported by UNC-Chapel Hill News_

Duke University will join a new National University Transportation Center run
by the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill’s Highway Safety Research
Center. Funded by the U.S. Department of Transportation, the new center will
look to reduce vehicular fatalities and injuries across the nation.

The Collaborative Sciences Center for Road Safety (CSCRS) will receive $2.8
million in funding in its first year and will be eligible to receive up to $15
million over the next five. By offering a new paradigm for how to understand
and address traffic safety issues, the center will conduct collaborative,
multidisciplinary research and education and technology transfer activities to
improve road safety in the U.S.

Mary “Missy” Cummings, professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science and director of the Humans and Autonomy Lab at Duke, will lead the
center’s efforts to prepare for the advent of driverless cars.

“I testified last March in front of the Senate Commerce Committee that not
enough was being done to address the thorny issues that arise when humans are
paired with imperfect self-driving cars,” said Cummings. “Given our extensive
research in human-autonomous system interaction, the Humans and Autonomy
Laboratory is excited to team with UNC to bring our world-renowned
sociotechnical research methods to bear for such an important growth area that
will affect almost every American’s daily life.”

Cummings is leading a research study on Duke’s campus that is examining how
pedestrians interact with driverless cars by equipping vehicles with various
types of signaling devices meant to inform pedestrians of their planned
movements. The new center will help expand this research to identify how
increasing levels of autonomy will affect safety. It will seek to better
understand how humans interact with driverless cars, both on the road and
behind the wheel.

"We must build a smarter, safer transportation future with dynamic travel
choices, capacity, and infrastructure for all road users,” said Rep. David
Price, ranking member of the U.S. House Appropriations subcommittee
responsible for transportation and housing. “The Collaborative Sciences Center
for Road Safety will make an invaluable contribution to our understanding of
how best to do so.”

Led by UNC’s Highway Safety Research Center in collaboration with the
University’s department of city and regional planning and the Injury
Prevention Research Center, the CSCRS unites leading transportation research,
planning, public health, data science and engineering programs at UNC-Chapel
Hill, Duke, Florida Atlantic and the Universities of California, Berkeley and
Tennessee--Knoxville.

HSRC Director David Harkey will serve as the CSCRS director and lead a
multifaceted team of national and international experts.

“It is time to rethink our approach to road safety,” said Harkey. “The CSCRS
provides an opportunity to find new ways to address legacy safety issues, such
as impaired driving and speeding, which continue to claim the lives of
thousands of road users each year. At the same time, we will explore how
today’s research can help us prepare for the challenges that tomorrow will
bring, such as traffic safety problems brought on by changes in technology or
sociodemographic shifts.”

With more than $2.8 million in the first year, this grant is one of 32 five-
year awards and one of five national centers that will be awarded to lead
consortia under the University Transportation Centers program to advance
research and education programs that address critical transportation
challenges facing the nation. Subsequent awards using federal fiscal 2017 to
fiscal 2020 funding will be made annually, subject to availability of funds
and grantee compliance with grant terms and conditions.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

