

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke's Hu Wins EDAA Outstanding Dissertation Award

February 10, 2017

Kai Hu is a recent Duke Electrical & Computer Engineering doctoral graduate

Kai Hu, a recent Duke ECE doctoral graduate, has won the 2016 European Design
and Automation Association’s (EDAA) Outstanding Dissertations Award for new
directions in logic, physical design and CAD for analog/mixed-signal, nano-
scale and emerging technologies.

This is the fourth time Duke doctoral students have won the prestigious award,
tying for the most with École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL) in
Lausanne, Switzerland.

Hu’s dissertation, completed under the tutelage of Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the
William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of Engineering, was titled
““Optimization, Testing and Design-for-Testability of Flow-Based Microfluidic
Biochips.”

The research focuses on design automation and test methods for large,
extremely dense microfluidic lab-on-a-chip devices that use large numbers of
membrane-based valves, packing up to a million in a single square centimeter.
The thesis presents a theoretical framework for designing and optimizing the
top (control) and bottom (flow) layer of valve-based, two-layer biochips.

The programmability and valve-based control of these devices are
revolutionizing a wide range of applications, such as high-throughput
sequencing, parallel immunoassays, clinical diagnostics, DNA sequencing and
protein crystallization.

“Kai’s research envisions an automated design flow for microfluidic biochips,
in the same way that design automation revolutionized integrated circuit
design in the ‘80s and ‘90s,” said Chakrabarty. “Biochip users such as
chemists, nurses, doctors and clinicians, and the biotech/pharmaceutical
industry, will adapt more easily to new technology if appropriate design tools
and automated test methods are made available.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

