

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineers Build Living Patch for Damaged Hearts

May 6, 2013 | by Richard Merritt

Duke University biomedical engineers have grown three-dimensional human heart
muscle that acts just like natural tissue.

This advancement could be important in treating heart attack patients or in
serving as a platform for testing new heart disease medicines.

The “heart patch” grown in the laboratory from human cells overcomes two major
obstacles facing cell-based therapies – the patch conducts electricity at
about the same speed as natural heart cells and it “squeezes” appropriately.
Earlier attempts to create functional heart patches have largely been unable
to overcome those obstacles.

The source cells used by the Duke researchers were human embryonic stem cells.
These cells are pluripotent, which means that when given the right chemical
and physical signals, they can be coaxed by scientists to become any kind of
cell – in this case heart muscle cells, known as cardiomyocytes.

“The structural and functional properties of these 3-D tissue patches surpass
all previous reports for engineered human heart muscle," said Nenad Bursac,
associate professor of biomedical engineering at Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering. "This is the closest man-made approximation of native human heart
tissue to date.”

The results of Bursac’s research, which is supported by the National Heart
Lung and Blood Institute, were published on-line in the journal Biomaterials.

Bursac said this approach does not involve genetic manipulation of cells.

“In past studies, human stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes were not able to both
rapidly conduct electrical activity and strongly contract as well as normal
cardiomyocytes,” Bursac said. “Through optimization of a three-dimensional
environment for cell growth, we were able to ‘push’ cardiomyocytes to reach
unprecedented levels of electrical and mechanical maturation.”

The rate of functional maturation is an important element for the patch to
become practical. In a developing human embryo, it takes about nine months for
a neonatal functioning heart to develop and an additional few years to reach
adult levels of function; however, advancing the functional properties of
these bioengineered patches took a little more than a month, Bursac said. As
technology advances, he said, the time should shorten.

“Currently, it would take us about five to six weeks starting from pluripotent
stem cells to grow a highly functional heart patch,” Bursac said.

“When someone has a heart attack, a portion of the heart muscle dies," Bursac
said. "Our goal would be to implant a patch of new and functional heart tissue
at the site of the injury as rapidly after heart attack as possible. Using a
patient’s own cells to generate pluripotent stem cells would add further
advantage in that there would likely be no immune system reaction, since the
cells in the patch would be recognized by the body as self.”

In addition to a possible therapy for patients with heart disease, Bursac said
that engineered heart tissues could also be used to effectively screen new
drugs or therapies.

“Tests or trials of new drugs can be expensive and time-consuming,” Bursac
said. “Instead of, or along with testing drugs on animals, the ability to test
on actual, functioning human tissue may be more predictive of the drugs’
effects and help determine which drugs should go on to further studies.”

Some drug tests are conducted on two-dimensional sheets of heart cells, but
according to Bursac, the 3-D culture model provides a superior environment for
functional maturation of cells. This is expected to better mimic real-world
heart muscle responses to different drugs or toxins. Engineered heart tissues
made with cells from patients with a cardiac genetic disease could be used as
the model to study that disease and explore potential therapies.

The current experiments were conducted on one human pluripotent stem cell
line. Bursac and his colleagues have reproduced their findings on two other
cell lines and are testing additional lines. They are also planning to move to
larger animal models to learn how the patch would become functionally
integrated with its host and how the patch establishes connections with the
circulatory system.

Other members of the research team were Donghui Zhang and Ilya Shadrin from
Duke, and Jason Lam, Hai-Qian Xian and Ralph Snodgrass, from VistaGen
Therapeutics, San Francisco, who provided cardiomyocytes for these studies.
Bursac's team and VistaGen (vistagen.com) are collaborating to develop
engineered cardiac tissues for more predictive drug screening and development.

CITATION: "Tissue-engineered cardiac patch for advanced functional maturation
of human ESC-derived cardiomyocytes," D. Zhang et. al. Biomaterials.
DOI.org/10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.04.026

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

