

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke-Led Team to Develop Privacy-Minded AI Health Learning Platform

September 17, 2020

A new $1 million NSF Convergence Accelerator award will support privacy-
preserving machine learning models for health care

A whole new world of health care insight is at our fingertips, thanks to
quickly evolving machine learning techniques that can analyze vast amounts of
data. But how can we effectively leverage this valuable data while ensuring
that patient information remains private?

A multidisciplinary research team led by Duke University and composed of Duke
electrical and computer engineering faculty members Hai Li and Lawrence Carin,
biostatistics and bioinformatics faculty David Page and Erich Huang, and
collaborators at the University of Pittsburgh and UMPC (Heng Huang, Wei Chen,
Samuel Dickson, Ying Ding, and Liang Zhan) is on track to answer that
question. The team has received a new $1 million National Science Foundation
(NSF) Convergence Accelerator grant to develop a health model sharing and
learning platform named LEARNER.

The NSF Convergence Accelerator program was launched in 2019 to help quickly
transition research and discovery aligning with NSF’s “Big Ideas” into
practice. In 2020, the NSF continues to invest in two transformative research
areas of national importance—quantum technology and artificial intelligence
(AI)—to ensure that technological advancements in these areas have a positive
impact on society.

> The NSF Convergence Accelerator program was launched in 2019 to help quickly
> transition research and discovery aligning with NSF’s “Big Ideas” into
> practice.

“The quantum technology and AI-driven data and model sharing topics were
chosen based on community input and identified federal research and
development priorities,” said Douglas Maughan, head of the NSF Convergence
Accelerator program. “This is the program’s second cohort and we are excited
for these teams to use convergence research and innovation-centric
fundamentals to accelerate solutions that have a positive societal impact.”

Li is confident that her team’s work will achieve exactly that, by helping to
meet the urgent national need for efficient and secure technologies that
realize the full potential of big data in health care while addressing FAIR
(findable, accessible, interoperable, reusable) data principles and handling
the high computation demands of machine learning algorithms. The new platform
will also include a repository where data and metadata can be securely
collected and shared.

“Our project will fundamentally advance AI-driven health innovations and
accelerate use-inspired convergence research in health data science through
infrastructure development and framework deployment,” said Li, a machine
learning expert who co-directs the Center for Alternative Sustainable and
Intelligent Computing (ASIC), an NSF industry–university cooperative research
center headquartered at Duke. “The LEARNER platform will support collaborative
health data science model sharing and learning, prevent data privacy leakage,
and provide complex data and execution management to improve the
reproducibility of complex health data analytics.”

Over the next nine months, the 2020 cohort Convergence Accelerator teams will
work to develop their initial concept, identify new team members and
participate in innovation curriculum focusing on human-centered design, team
science, and pitch preparation and presentation coaching. After developing an
initial prototype, the teams will participate in a pitch competition and
proposal evaluation. Teams selected for phase two will be eligible for
additional funding—up to $5 million for a period of 24 months.

By the end of phase two, teams are expected to deliver high-impact solutions
that impact societal needs at scale.

More News from Duke ECE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

