

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Teams with Durham Success Summit to Provide Entrepreneurial
Training to Local Youths

January 27, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Christensen Family Center partners with Duke graduate’s 12-week mentorship
experience for young Black men in Durham

Despite being born and raised in Duke University’s hometown of Durham, North
Carolina, Derek Rhodes never set foot on campus before becoming an
undergraduate in 2011. After experiencing the wealth of life-changing
resources Duke has to offer, and taking advantage of many of them, he set out
to find ways that other young Black men in Durham could seize opportunities he
never knew existed.

In the middle of 2021, Rhodes focused all of his time and energy on founding
the Durham Success Summit (DSS)—a free, 12-week holistic mentorship experience
that provides professional development, entrepreneurship education and
leadership training to Black male high school and college-enrolled youth in
the Durham area.

As the DSS curriculum grows, he’s continually reaching back into his Duke
roots to find more opportunities for his students.

In one such opportunity, DSS is partnering with Duke Engineering’s Christensen
Family Center for Innovation to offer its expertise in entrepreneurship. Also
launched in 2021, the Christensen Family Center serves as a community hub and
place educators seek ways to make teaching innovation easier, faster and
cheaper. It has developed systems for Duke’s Student Founder program that
helps coach entrepreneurs.

“Duke Engineering is at the forefront of innovation, and the evolving
curriculum and wealth of opportunities it can provide is a great resource for
our scholars,” said Rhodes, who graduated from Duke with a degree in public
policy in 2015. “The collaboration will also provide us data and reporting
that we haven’t had before, which will help us understand where our scholars’
needs are, identify blockers to success and provide ways to overcome them at
the right time.”

> “We’re developing soft skills that allow their confidence to grow as their
> network expands...I’m excited to be able to create the access to these
> resources that I wish I had prior to becoming a Duke student.”
>
> derek rhodes

When the COVID-19 pandemic hit in early 2020, it forced many of Duke
Engineering’s existing innovation and entrepreneurship programs to go digital.
While not ideal for many scenarios, the shift allowed engineering
entrepreneurship training programs to observe outcomes better and in real-
time. It also provided more flexibility to its participants and mentors, while
allowing a redesign of the methods to be more easily transferrable to programs
outside of Duke’s campus.

“We want to grow outside of the university to create more access and,
selfishly, improve our programs,” said Steve McClelland, executive-in-
residence at Duke Engineering and leader of many of its innovation and
entrepreneurship programs. “Working with students from different backgrounds
and in different situations makes us revisit assumptions we make about the
questions we ask and how we operate. Offering our curriculum to the cohort
Derek has built is an invaluable way for us to test and improve repeatable,
scalable systems to help communities of innovation better themselves.”

DSS works as a career readiness accelerator that pairs scholars with mentors
for weekly meetings and assignments. Participants identify the skillsets most
useful to them and their careers, learn leadership and soft-skill sets, and
create connections and networks within the field in which they’re most
interested.

Through the 12-week program, scholars will pair these lessons with similar
topics, such as combining leadership branding with startup pitching.
Throughout the process, scholars will provide surveys and feedback that
partners in Duke’s Fuqua School of Business will analyze and use to improve
future classes and collaborations.

“Our program develops skills that are transferrable to whatever pursuits a
scholar might take on, whether they’re going to start a business or not,”
Rhodes said. “We’re developing soft skills that allow their confidence to grow
as their network expands. Now we’re taking what Steve and his team have built
and adding it to create a wrap-around support system that hasn’t existed
before. Students get to create their journey through the program, and I’m
excited to be able to create the access to these resources that I wish I had
prior to becoming a Duke student.”

## Related News

September 28, 2021

### Christensen Family Gift Endows Center for Student Design Education at Duke

September 28, 2021

### Christensen Family Center Is Home to a New View on Innovation

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

