

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Earl H. Dowell to Receive the 2022 ASME Thomas K. Caughey Dynamics Medal

May 17, 2022 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Dowell is an international leader in computational modeling and
experimentation for aeroelastic systems in which fluids and structure interact

The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) has honored Earl H. Dowell
with the 2022 Thomas K. Caughey Dynamics Medal “for significant contributions
to the field of nonlinear dynamics in fluid-structure interactions,
aeroelasticity and structural vibrations.”

Dowell is the William Holland Hall Distinguished Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science, a former Dean of Engineering at Duke and a
leader of the Aeroelasticity Research Group in Duke's Thomas Lord Department
of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science.

"It is an honor to receive the medal named after Tom Caughey, one of our most
distinguished scholars in dynamics,” Dowell said. “And, of course, it is a
privilege to join those colleagues and friends who are past recipients. I am
most grateful to the selection board members for their confidence in me.”

> "It is an honor to receive the medal named after Tom Caughey, one of our
> most distinguished scholars in dynamics.”
>
> **Earl H. Dowell** | William Holland Hall Distinguished Professor

Thomas K. Caughey, a longtime faculty member at the California Institute of
Technology, was highly influential in the field of vibration engineering—from
earthquake prediction to control of spacecraft.

Dowell is an international leader in computational modeling and
experimentation for aeroelastic systems in which fluids and structure
interact. The most dramatic interaction is a dynamic instability called
flutter. Dowell’s contributions to understanding and preventing such an
instability include the first definitive correlation of theory and experiment
for the flutter of skin panels on supersonic aircraft in collaboration with an
early mentor, Herb Voss of Boeing. Later work with Prof. Dewey Hodges of
Georgia Tech led to the first nonlinear model of rotor blades and their
aeroelastic response.

His current research explores ways to create and control limit-cycle
oscillations induced by flutter to harvest electrical energy from wind-excited
aeroelastic systems, providing potential new sources of clean power.

Dowell also is developing computational models for fluid structural thermal
interactions in hypersonic flight vehicles. Current collaborations with Duke
colleagues focus on the global dynamic instability of flow fields with Kenneth
Hall and transonic aeroelasticity of wings and control surfaces with Jeff
Thomas.

This award is Dowell’s fourth from ASME and one of many honors by peers
recognizing his contributions and lasting influence in this field. Others
include election to the National Academy of Engineering, the 2016 American
Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) Reed Aeronautics Award—the
highest individual honor for notable achievement in aeronautics—and
fellowships in ASME, AIAA and the American Academy of Mechanics.

Dowell will receive the Caughey Medal during the ASME's 2022 International
Mechanical Engineering Conference and Exposition, Oct. 30-Nov. 3, in Columbus,
Ohio.

Mechanical Engineering at Duke

## Related News

May 17, 2021

### Designing for the Future of Safe Flight, Energy Generation and National
Security

April 01, 2021

### Keeping Airplanes, Rockets and Helicopters in the Sky

June 16, 2016

### Dowell Receives Highest Individual Honor for Achievement in Aeronautics

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

