

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Students Connect Engineering and Entrepreneurship in Technology and Design
Pathway

January 16, 2018

Engineering Innovation helps fill out one of the pathways to an Innovation and
Entrepreneurship Certificate

_ByKatie Jansen, Duke I&E_

Students in Becky Simmons’ Engineering Innovation class assembled devices made
of springs, wooden spoons, bits of string, tubes and other various materials
on a sunny day on the East Campus quad. The challenge, called “fall fling,”
had one objective: to launch a juggling ball from one device and catch it in a
spray paint cap inside another device.

The stakes were high – the students’ grades depended on the number of catches
in a specified time period, as well as the distance the ball traveled – but
the students still had some fun with the assignment, making their devices
match a theme. One looked like a Hubble telescope, while another was a mini
replica of the court in Cameron Indoor Stadium.

Anuj Thakkar, a sophomore who is pursuing the I&E Certificate, was one of the
team members adjusting the mini basketball court. As a mechanical engineering
major at the Pratt School of Engineering, he was required to take Engineering
Innovation, or EGR121L. The class can also count toward the I&E Certificate’s
Technology & Design Pathway.

Thakkar said he chose to pursue the I&E Certificate because he’s been
interested in startups for some time and wanted to be surrounded by likeminded
people.

The two-week project required students to learn how to design within
constraints. A previous challenge focused on reverse engineering, and groups
were tasked with taking apart household appliances and determining how to make
them more cost effective.

Throughout the semester, the students also go through the following
challenges: designing a Happy Meal toy using SOLIDWORKS and 3D printing;
identifying, defining, and solving a true problem on campus; and designing a
Rube Goldberg machine that will allow a ball to travel in a complex series of
paths from group to group, initiating an electronic sensor at each group’s
stop.

“It’s a great early opportunity for the students to do design innovation
prototyping,” Simmons said.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

