

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering with a Purpose

June 14, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Inspired by her little brother’s chronic illness, biomedical engineering
student Rhianna Lee ’16 sets out to find a cure—and helps some of Durham’s
disabled workers along the way.

“If I built a time machine, what would you do with it?”

The question was posed by Al Lee, a 10-year-old boy sitting in the car next to
his mother, Susan. The family was on their way to his grandmother’s house
after church one beautiful fall afternoon. The conversation up until then had
been focused on their excitement for Rhianna, Al’s big sister sitting in the
back seat.

Rhianna was recently admitted into Duke University, where she planned to study
biomedical engineering. Turning to Al, Susan had asked what he’d like to do
when he grew up. His response about building something, even a time machine,
wasn’t a surprise. His father and he were always tinkering around and building
things together.

As for what Susan would do with it, the answer was easy.

“Well, I’d travel into the future to a time where they’ve discovered a cure
for cystic fibrosis, and then bring that cure back to when you were born so
that you’d never have to live with it.”

Al had just finished another days-long stint in the hospital—a normal
occurrence for anyone with cystic fibrosis. The genetic disease causes a
misfolding of a protein essential for transporting sodium chloride in and out
of cells. The result is a thick buildup of mucus in the lungs, where the mucus
clogs the airways and traps bacteria, leading to infections, extensive lung
damage and, eventually, respiratory failure.

The silver minivan sped down the South Carolinian highway as Al pondered his
mother’s idea. His response stunned everyone in the car.

“You can’t do that, Mom,” said Al. “If you did, then Rhianna wouldn’t have
studied so hard to get into Duke, and she may be the person who helps find the
cure.”

**A Path to Duke**

Al Lee was born when his sister Rhianna was eight years old. Everything was
fine at first, but after a few months he was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis.

Everyone in the family knew exactly what this meant. Cystic fibrosis is a
degenerative disease that runs in families; the median survival rate is 40.
Rhianna and Al have one cousin living with the disease, and another cousin who
passed away from it at the age of 23 when Rhianna was only 11.

She became determined to change the course for Al.

“During middle school I decided that I wanted to do medical research,
specifically for cystic fibrosis, trying to find a cure,” says Rhianna. “At
first I thought about becoming a clinician, after seeing how big of an impact
the doctors and nurses have had on my brother, but then I realized that’s more
like treating symptoms. They do a great job of that and are really important,
but I wanted to try and fix the problem a little bit earlier.”

With that lofty goal in mind, Rhianna spent her high school years intensely
studying math and science. She began reading about cystic fibrosis, which led
her to learn about biomedical engineering.

And that led her to Duke.

As one of the nation’s premier biomedical engineering programs—and just a few
hours away from home—Duke was an obvious choice. After spending a summer on
campus in Duke’s Talent Identification Program—built to identify and challenge
academically gifted children—her mind was made up.

“When I got into Duke, it was very exciting for my entire family,” says
Rhianna. “They knew how much I wanted to go here.”

**Designing Devices for People with Disabilities**

During Rhianna’s time at Duke, she’s taken advantage of a wide range of
opportunities to explore various aspects of biomedical research and
engineering—while keeping her goal of combating cystic fibrosis firmly in
mind.

Beginning in her sophomore year, she took a bus to the University of North
Carolina – Chapel Hill, where one of her math professors had used his
connections to get her a spot in a cystic fibrosis laboratory. For the next 18
months, Rhianna traveled 45 minutes each way, three days a week, in addition
to her regular classwork.

In her senior year, Rhianna worked in the neuroengineering laboratory of
Duke’s Jonathan Viventi. While focused on hardware design, the experience has
been valuable for understanding what research entails, she says.

But perhaps her most rewarding experience was in BME 460: Device Design for
People with Disabilities. The 20-year-old class—taught by Kevin Caves for the
past 13—is a semester-long capstone senior design course for biomedical
engineers. Caves spends the summer scouring Durham and its surrounding
communities for people or service providers who need help.

“I’m looking for people with problems for whom solutions don’t exist, or with
existing solutions that we could make significant improvements to,” says
Caves. “The class challenges students to design, build, prototype, test and
build a device that will actually get used by real people after they’re done.”

Rhianna signed up for the class with two of her friends,  and Caitlin Koehler,
who formed a group that partnered with Durham Exchange Club Industries (DECI).
DECI is a non-profit community rehab program that provides vocational work for
people with disabilities.

“Right off the bat we knew we wanted to work with them,” says White, who is
also a graduating senior in biomedical engineering. “If we could get a device
to a company that could be used by 20 people, that could make a truly
sustainable impact.”

**Straightening Hangers and Opening Bottles**

When Rhianna, Courtney and Caitlin first went to DECI, they met one of the
workers there named Michael. Due to a traumatic brain injury sustained in a
motorcycle accident, Michael has the full use of one hand, limiting the jobs
that he can perform.

One job that he was able to do regularly was straightening coat hangers. Any
company that deals with a lot of coats or uniforms—think dry-cleaners or
hospitals—invariably ends up with coat hangers that have stretched from their
normal triangles into useless diamonds. Michael’s job was to force them back
into their original shape, which typically involved hitting them against a
table or pushing them against his own body.

Rhianna’s team thought they could do better.

After a long series of dead-end ideas, the group designed a spring-loaded form
that could do the job faster and easier—and without any bruises. A fairly
straightforward solution, the device enables the worker to place the coat
hanger in a mold and push in to reset the hanger’s shape.

The group also came up with two devices to help employees open pill bottles
single-handedly. On a regular basis, pharmaceutical companies have to test the
machines that fill and label pill bottles. Rather than throwing all of the
testing materials away afterward, they send them to DECI to have the caps and
labels removed and the bottles and caps sorted.

With multiple types of pill bottle caps, the team had to come up with multiple
solutions. The most complex machine looks like an old soda can crusher. A
worker puts a pill bottle in the device, pushes down on a lever to depress the
cap, and then twists the base to unscrew the cap.

“The coat hanger straightener improved Michael’s productivity by 274 percent,”
says Rhianna. “Workers at DECI get paid based on the number of tasks they
complete, so now he can make almost three times as much money in a given day.

“And before we built the pill bottle opener, that task was inaccessible to
Michael,” she continues. “Now he has access to a new job, which is exciting.
Hopefully other employees who come to DECI who have use of one hand will have
access as well.”

“These products have had a significant impact for our clients,” says Mark
Pennington, a manager at DECI. “They’re also going to be very helpful for
folks who have learning disabilities. It really broadens the availability of
training for our workers.”

**The Source America Design Competition**

After their successful semester, Professor Caves encouraged the team to submit
their projects in the national SourceAmerica Design Challenge competition. To
the team’s surprise, they were selected as finalists.

This April, they traveled to Washington, DC for the main competition, which
included a day of training and workshops, followed by a day-long visit to
Capitol Hill to explain to the North Carolina senatorial staff how their
devices work and an evening poster session. The third day featured the
presentations themselves—15 minutes to demonstrate how their devices work and
why they are important.

“We knew that our designs were good, but all the other entries we saw were
incredible,” says White. “We tried to go in with minimal expectations, to just
have fun with it and use it as an excuse to get more involved with the
project. It was really fun getting to go back to DECI months afterward and see
our devices being used, but I don’t think any of us actually expected we’d
win.”

But win they did.

“We’ve had some finalists before, and in the SourceAmerica Design Competition,
we’ve finished in the top three a few other times,” Caves notes. “But this is
the first time we’ve won it.”

**Peering into the Future**

With their senior years and the design competition behind them, the winning
women are moving on to the next phase in their careers. Caitlin is working
with Teach for America in downtown Indianapolis, Courtney is looking for
industry jobs while continuing to work in her laboratory and Rhianna plans to
take a year or two off of academics to work in a research lab before applying
to graduate school.

As for Al, he is entering high school and maybe wants to be an animator
someday—he enjoys drawing bizarre creatures like giant slugs with spiked
shells and elephant heads.

The Lees have high hopes that he’ll reach his goals. A new medication was
recently introduced that has been effective in about 50 percent of cystic
fibrosis cases. Rather than simply treating symptoms, it tries to correct the
root of the problem—the misfolded proteins.

While the new treatment wouldn’t help Al’s specific mutations, its development
shows the progress that is possible. In her senior year, Rhianna took a class
about genetic engineering, which included a section on CRISPR—a hot new
genetic engineering tool that holds great potential for a vast array of
genetic diseases, including cystic fibrosis.

There is much that can be done, and much still to do, to help Al and others
with cystic fibrosis.

“But first I hope to learn more about the research and get my foot in the
door,” says Rhianna. “Whatever comes next, Duke has prepared me for my future
by pushing me. Duke has pushed my understanding, pushed me to discover new
interests and pushed me to endure even when problems seemed too big to solve.
And now that I have survived four years at Duke, I feel prepared to push on
and survive the future.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

