

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering a Smarter Stride

April 15, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineering student Ivonna Dumanyan is starting a business that makes
sensors to detect improper running form.

If you asked Ivonna Dumanyan just five years ago where she’d be today,
starting a running tech company at Duke University would never have crossed
her mind. But thanks to a lot of hard work and the entrepreneurial resources
provided across Duke’s campus, her present-day reality has outstripped her
imagination.

Born in the Ukraine, Dumanyan immigrated to the United States with her family
when she was five years old. She spent the next twelve years growing up in the
southern New Jersey city of Vineland, attending a large but academically
challenged school district. Without expecting much to come of her dedicated
hard work, Dumanyan envisioned starting out at the local community college for
two years or following her passion for rowing to an athletic scholarship at a
larger university.

“I honestly didn’t think that I’d ever be coming to such a prestigious
university, but Duke has proven me wrong in a really good way,” says Dumanyan,
who received a full academic scholarship to attend the school. “Duke has given
me everything I need to make it here, and as soon as I got here all the doors
just seemed to open for anything that I tried to do.”

Dumanyan joined the crew team and pursued a degree in the Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science in Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering. But just a year into her education, her path took yet another
detour when she befriended Gabrielle Levac.

Levac was two years ahead of Dumanyan and an accomplished athlete on Duke’s
track team majoring in statistics. She also had a history of injuries, having
had multiple surgeries before she even turned 21. The two lamented that there
were few—if any—resources outside of the training room for athletes to monitor
their form with.

So they decided to do something about it.

“At the beginning of last summer, I thought to myself, ‘Why not go for it?
Let’s give it a try,’” recalls Dumanyan, now a junior. “We decided to build a
device to detect abnormalities in running form.”

Levac, who graduated from Trinity in 2014, had plenty of experience running
and knew what competitive athletes could use in such a sensor. But as
statistics and mechanics buffs, neither had any experience at all with
electrical and computer engineering. The pair would have to look outside of
their own curriculum to pursue their ambitions—a prospect that proved to be no
problem at all.

Dumanyan applied for a fellowship through Duke’s Smart Home Program, which
enables students to do project-based design research in their engineering
major and receive independent study course credit. With the fellowship’s
support, she began testing different ways of tracking heel stability through
pressure sensors, accelerometers, and gyroscopes.

She also received financial and technical support through Duke’s Innovation
Co-Lab, which offers a grant program for building the next wave of technology
for the Duke Community. Her grant provided funding for materials like sensors
and batteries for prototyping, and the Co-Lab’s office hours provided vital
technical help.

She also knocked on a lot of doors.

“Quite honestly, I just popped into office hours for some of the Electrical
and Computer Engineering classes and asked questions,” says Dumanyan. “I’ve
been warmly received everywhere I’ve asked for help, which has been a
fantastic experience.”

The device that has evolved from the project uses gyroscopes and
accelerometers adhered directly to the skin of a runner’s heel to measure its
displacement, which is a metric for measuring pronation. Pronation is the
inward or outward motion of the heel that causes a collapse or outward bowing
of the foot’s arch.

Since pronation is an inherent instability, it causes a lot of problems
elsewhere in the body—in the knees, hips, ankles and back. And over pronating
or under pronating can be quite painful on the foot. It’s been linked to
planar fasciitis, one of the most common causes of heel pain involving
inflammation of a thick band of tissue. The goal of the sensor system is to
detect when a runner’s foot is pronating incorrectly and warn the athlete so
that he or she can correct their form or even stop and strengthen before an
injury occurs.

In mid-March 2015, Dumanyan and Levac were ready to formally test their
working prototype by putting it on some actual athletes and gathering real
data. Their plan is to compare their data with traditional running mechanics
analytics taken from video to prove their device is accurate. Once the data
and device are independently certified by two separate physical therapists, an
angel has already committed to shepherd the budding company through the
manufacturing of beta devices, the development of an integrated app, and the
launching of a Kickstarter campaign.

If all goes to plan, the company they’ve dubbed BioMetrix could have its
funding campaign launched by November 2015.

“The whole process has raised my self-confidence quite a bit,” says Dumanyan,
who has since left rowing and become more serious about running with Levac’s
support and training. “I’ve realized that, while we’re getting a degree from
Pratt, we’re not confined to the major we’re in. We’re not in a box—we’re in a
fluid system where the exchange of ideas and talents is free-flowing.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

