

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Entrepreneurial Confidence

April 15, 2018

From a “Founder’s Workshop” course to a $20,000 Innovation Grant competition,
Duke Engineering is investing in new initiatives to help undergraduates turn
their ideas into impactful solutions

It all started at Duke with an idea.

Duke Engineering undergraduate Sam Fox had an idea for a device to help a
wheelchair user take a shower.

> “Our job is simple: to increase the impact of Duke innovation.
> Entrepreneurship is the engine we use to do that.”
>
> **Bill Walker**  
>  Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship (ENgEn)

Fox, a biomedical engineering (BME) major, brought his idea to instructor and
assistive device designer Kevin Caves, who connected him with patient care
experts at Duke’s medical center.

These experts informed him about a much more urgent set of problems: how to
lift, transfer, and reposition bedridden patients. Although proper positioning
prevents bedsores, moving patients can pose a risk of injury to nurses, and
many existing assistive devices are slow and cumbersome.

Fox's initial solution was too complex, but further iterations led to a
focused design: a device for turning and repositioning patients in bed. He
then drew on the expertise of his BME faculty advisor Robert Malkin, a leader
in the creation of effective medical technologies for the developing world.

With Malkin’s encouragement, and help with a development strategy, Fox got to
work. He designed a device that uses air-filled tubes to safely reposition a
patient.

Fox built a proof-of-concept model in The Foundry—a 7,600-square-foot, tool-
filled maker space administered by Duke Engineering, and open 24 hours to any
Duke student.

The prototype won the Duke BME Prize in the annual Duke Startup Challenge
competition—$5,000 that Fox used to turn his prototype into a field-test
version under the mentorship of Bill Walker, a Duke Engineering graduate,
successful entrepreneur and Mattson Family Director. He is a leader of the
Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn) initiative.

“Bill had a transformative impact,” Fox said. “He brought his huge wealth of
knowledge and network to help me.”

Walker met weekly with Fox to review plans and provide advice.

EngEn coordinates a range of opportunities and resources to build students’
entrepreneurial confidence and help guide student-founders along the path to
the robust launch of new companies.

> “Part of what we’re doing is demystifying the path to successful
> entrepreneurship."
>
> **Steven McClelland**  
>  Executive-In-Residence

EngEn the program is led by Ken Gall, associate dean for entrepreneurship and
Walker. Along with Steve McClelland, a Duke Engineering graduate and
entrepreneur, they serve as dedicated mentors and advisors for aspiring
founders among engineering students and faculty.

With Walker’s help, Fox pitched his startup idea to potential investors among
Duke alumni, raising additional funds. Now, he’s made an agreement with Duke
Health to have its nurses and clinical staff field-test the device.

Fox’s experience may, in its swift path forward, seem extraordinary—but his
entrepreneurial drive and access to resources at Duke Engineering to support
that ambition make such success stories increasingly common.

“Part of what we’re doing is demystifying the path,” said McClelland, a
Silicon Valley tech executive who founded a web-consulting company and was
chief architect at Citizen Sports when it was acquired by Yahoo. “If you start
a company, no matter whether it succeeds or not, you’re going to learn a lot
if you’re paying attention.”

From creating spaces to work on personal ideas, to new courses teaching
entrepreneurial skills, to new programs that fund the development of student
startups—entrepreneurship is a central, and growing, part of the Duke
Engineering student experience.

More at engen.duke.edu

Read more about Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate research experience
»

* * *

##

## Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn)

**EngEn** integrates design experiences, entrepreneurial education, startup
resources, and a leadership team of successful entrepreneurs.

It provides an array of resources through two focused efforts that together
drive the cycle of problem identification, solution development and the launch
of new ventures into the marketplace:

  * **Center for Purposeful Design and Engineering** —Serves students, and
    faculty and staff, as they identify, design and validate tech-based
    innovations
  * **Center for Entrepreneurship** —Supports founders as they launch new
    products, services and companies

Currently virtual, these centers will be located in Duke's new engineering
building when it opens in late 2020.

More at EngEn.Duke.edu »

* * *

## DUKE AND KEEN: NATIONAL PARTNERSHIP

Duke Engineering is a proud and active member of **KEEN, the Kern
Entrepreneurial Network** —a national partnership of engineering faculty
focused on developing and promoting innovation in engineering education for
the good of society.

Through KEEN, Duke faculty share relevant best practices, course content
modules and pedagogical innovations—all with the goal of equipping young
engineers with an entrepreneurial mindset that can make significant positive
impacts in the world.

More about Duke and KEEN »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

