

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# When the Physics Say “Don’t Follow Your Nose”

April 18, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers are using the physics of airflows to locate gaseous leaks more
quickly in complex scenarios

Engineers at Duke University are developing a smart robotic system for
sniffing out pollution hotspots and sources of toxic leaks. Their approach
enables a robot to incorporate complex calculations of airflows in confined
spaces made on the fly, rather than simply guide the robot to 'follow its
nose'.

“Many existing approaches that employ robots to locate sources of airborne
particles rely on bio-inspired educated but simplistic guesses, or heuristic
techniques, that drive the robots upwind or to follow increasing
concentrations,” said Michael M. Zavlanos, the Mary Milus Yoh and Harold L.
Yoh, Jr. Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
at Duke. “These methods can usually only localize a single source in open
space, and they cannot estimate other equally important parameters such as
release rates.”

But in complex environments, these simplistic methods can send the robots on
wild goose chases into areas that contain no sources of the leak but where the
concentrations are artificially increased by the physics of the airflows.

“If somebody is smoking outside, it doesn’t take long to find them by just
following your nose because there’s nothing stopping the air currents from
being predictable,” said Wilkins Aquino, the Anderson-Rupp Professor of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke. “But put the same
cigarette inside an office and suddenly it becomes much more difficult because
of the irregular air currents created by hallways, corners and offices.”

In a recent paper published online in the IEEE Transactions on Robotics,
Zavlanos, Aquino and newly minted PhD graduate Reza Khodayi-mehr instead take
advantage of the physics behind these airflows to trace the source of an
emission more efficiently.

Their approach combines physics-based models of the source identification
problem with path planning algorithms for robotics in a feedback loop. The
robots take measurements of contaminant concentrations in the environment and
then use these measurements to incrementally calculate where the chemicals are
actually coming from.

“Creating these physics-based models requires the solution of partial
differential equations, which is computationally demanding and makes their
application onboard small, mobile robots very challenging,” said Khodayi-mehr.
“We’ve had to create simplified models to make the calculations more
efficient, which also makes them less accurate. It’s a challenging trade-off.”

Khodayi-mehr built a rectangular box with a wall nearly bisecting the space
length-wise to create a miniature U-shaped hallway that mimics a simplified
office space. A fan pumps air into the corridor at one end of the U and back
out of the other, while gaseous ethanol is slowly leaked into one of the
corners. Despite the simplicity of the setup, the air currents created within
are turbulent and messy, creating a difficult source identification problem
for any ethanol-sniffing robot to solve.

But the robot solves the problem anyway.

The robot takes a concentration measurement, fuses it with previous
measurements, and solves a challenging optimization problem to estimate where
the source is. It then figures out the most useful location to take its next
measurement and repeats the process until the source is found.

“By combining physics-based models with optimal path planning, we can figure
out where the source is with very few measurements,” said Zavlanos. “This is
because physics-based models provide correlations between measurements that
are not accounted for in purely data-driven approaches, and optimal path
planning allows the robot to select those few measurements with the most
information content.”

“The physics-based models are not perfect but they still carry way more
information than just the sensors alone,” added Aquino. “They don’t have to be
exact, but they allow the robot to make inferences based on what is possible
within the physics of the airflows. This results in a much more efficient
approach.”

These physics-based planning algorithms aren’t yet faster than heuristic
methods, but they can still be run onboard small robots and are much more
robust. They can also handle situations with multiple sources, which is
currently impossible for heuristic approaches, and can even measure the rate
of contamination.

The group is still working to create machine-learning algorithms to make their
models even more efficient and accurate at the same time. They’re also working
to extend this idea to programming a fleet of robots to conduct a methodical
search of a large area. While they haven’t tried the group approach in
practice yet, they have published simulations that demonstrate its potential.

“Moving from a lab environment with controlled settings to a more practical
scenario obviously requires addressing other challenges too,” said Khodayi-
mehr. “For example, in a real-world scenario we probably won’t know the
geometry of the domain going in. Those are some of the ongoing research
directions we’re currently working on.”

CITATION: “Model-Based Active Source Identification in Complex Environments.”
Reza Khodayi-mehr, Wilkins Aquino, Michael M. Zavlanos. IEEE Transactions on
Robots, 2019.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

