

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Every Snowflake Is Not Unique

January 21, 2015 | By Adrian Bejan

They all share one architecture, determined by the way heat flows.

_Reprinted with permission fromASME Mechanical Engineering magazine._

People like to say that every snowflake is unique. On the level of execution
and fine detail, that may or may not be true. After all, who has seen every
snowflake?

It is certain, however, that every snowflake conforms to only one
architecture: a flat star with six fishbones connected at the center. What’s
more, that structure is predictable provided that we recognize the underlying
principle: first, that something flows, in this case heat, and, second, that
the natural tendency of all flows is to evolve into architectures that provide
easier access. It’s another example of the constructal law.

Here is how to predict the shape and structure of the snowflake. In the
beginning, there is cold humid air, below 0 °C. Then, all of a sudden, around
a tiny speck of dust, ice forms and grows as a spherical bead.
Counterintuitively, the bead is warmer than everything else around it, and
heat flows away from it in all directions. What heat? The latent heat of
solidification, which is released by the water vapor that becomes solid at the
bead surface.

There comes a critical time when the spherical bead is no longer an efficient
architecture for dissipating heat. The principle calls for design change,
toward faster heat release and solidification. The growth of ice morphs
abruptly into a ball continued in one plane by needles. Because of the
configuration of the water molecule, the needles grow in six directions. The
flat star transfers heat to the surroundings more easily than a spherical bead
with the same diameter.

Incidentally, why does the snowflake grow in one plane, as a flat star?
Because needles in one plane grow faster (with more access to cold air) than
needles growing in all directions.

There comes a second critical moment when the tip of every needle feels the
same as the original bead. Each tip would generate six new needles, except
that only the three that point forward can grow. One needle cannot grow
backward because that place is occupied by the mother needle; and the two
backward side needles cannot grow either, because the air in the interstices
(between two mother needles) is no longer cold.

This stepwise evolutionary design continues as long as the new forward
pointing needles find cold air that serves as sink for the heat released by
their growth.

To give credit to the view that every snowflake is unique, the actual
configuration depends on many secondary effects, which are of random origin.
Very cold air makes needles that are sharp and fast growing (fluffy snow).
Cold air just under 0 °C makes fat needles; the snowflake falls like a leaf;
it bumps into and sticks to its neighbors, and the wind damages all the
snowflakes in random ways due to air turbulence.

In spite of the obvious diversity, the human mind records the snowflake design
in the same simple way that the mind predicts the design from principle. The
table cloth pattern, the Christmas tree ornament, and the snowflake predicted
from the constructal law are one design. The three artists did not talk to
each other while making their drawings. Such is organization in nature, and
such is life.

The snowflake story has many equivalents throughout nature, animate and
inanimate. Every river basin is not unique. The river basin has a rule of
construction and a principle: four tributaries to a larger channel, predicted
from the constructal law. Every sprinter is not unique. The runner has a rule
of construction and a principle: the speed is a multiple of the body mass
raised to the power 1/6, predicted from the constructal law. Next time you
hear that every snowflake is unique, think about its principle, the
constructal law.

###

Adrian Bejan is the J. A. Jones Distinguished Professor of mechanical
engineering at Duke University.

Article courtesy of _Mechanical Engineering_ magazine. Reprinted from Vol.
137, No. 1, pages 40-41. Copyright _Mechanical Engineering_ magazine (the
American Society of Mechanical Engineers).

**To know more:**

A. Bejan, _Advanced Engineering Thermodynamics_ , 3rd ed., Wiley, Hoboken,
2006, pp. 779-782.

A. Bejan, S. Lorente, B. S. Yilbas, and A. Z. Sahin, “Why solidification has
an S-shaped history,” _Nature Scientific Reports_ , Vol. 3, 2013, 1711; DOI:
10.1038/srep01711 (2013).

A. Bejan and J. P Zane, _Design in Nature. How the Constructal Law Governs
Evolution in Biology, Physics, Technology, and Social Organization_ ,
Doubleday, New York, 2012.

The 9th Constructal Law & Second Law Conference will be held in Parma Italy,
on 18-19 May 2015.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

