

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Farsiu Named Fellow of the Optical Society

October 9, 2020 | Michaela Kane

Distinction recognizes Farsiu’s contributions to optical image processing and
biophotonics

Sina Farsiu, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Distinguished Associate Professor of
Engineering, has been named a Fellow of the Optical Society of America (OSA).
Farsiu was cited for his “outstanding contributions to optical image
processing and biophotonics.”

Farsiu is the director of the Vision and Image Processing Laboratory in Duke’s
Departments of Biomedical Engineering and Ophthalmology, where he has been
instrumental in introducing modern image processing and computation methods
into the field of ophthalmic imaging.

He is a pioneer in development of artificial intelligence (AI) systems that
can automatically detect multiple diseases of the eye based on optical
coherence tomography images of the retina. He has also developed AI algorithms
that can tailor treatment to specific patients afflicted by diabetic macular
edema, a leading cause of blindness in working-age Americans.

Farsiu has been recognized for helping to produce the first portable adaptive
optics scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (AOSLO), which allows researchers to see
neurons in the eyes of young children in the clinical setting. He furthered
this work by developing the first AI algorithm that can autonomously locate
difficult-to-spot photoreceptors on AOSLO images.

Farsiu has also solved fundamental problems in using super-resolution––a
software approach that attains high-resolution images from low-resolution
sensors in real-world applications. His highly cited publications and patents
on practical super-resolution framework have resulted in the development of
many high-resolution imaging and image processing systems for various
industrial, academic and clinical applications.

“I’m humbled to be elected as a Fellow of the Optical Society,” says Farsiu.
“Considering that I have no formal education in optics or biophotonics, OSA’s
recognition of my scientific achievements is also a testament to the
intellectual generosity of my colleagues, and the interdisciplinary
collaboration opportunities at Duke.”

OSA Fellows are nominated by their peers as members of the society who have
served with distinction in the advancement of optics and photonics. Founded in
1916, The Optical Society is the leading professional organization for
scientists, engineers, students and business leaders who fuel discoveries,
shape real-life applications and accelerate achievements in the science of
light.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

