

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Faster. Stronger. Smarter.

February 20, 2020 | by Laura Ertel

Artificial intelligence is shaping the future of eye care—and Duke is leading
the way

_From Duke Eye Center's Vision Magazine  
_

Artificial intelligence (AI) leverages the growing power and speed of
computers to solve complex problems. AI is transforming medical research and
clinical practice—and ophthalmology is leading the way.

“One of the most successful ways that AI has been applied recently is in the
area of ‘computer vision,’ which is the assessment and interpretation of
images,” explains Felipe Medeiros, MD, PhD, Joseph A.C. Wadsworth Professor of
Ophthalmology. “We can apply sophisticated AI algorithms, such as ‘deep
learning’ neural networks, which are capable of very complex pattern
recognition tasks, to identify whether specific characteristics are present in
an image or not.

“In ophthalmology we have a wealth of eye images—fundus photographs, optical
coherence tomography (OCT), etc.—that are fundamental to the diagnosis,
monitoring, and treatment of a number of eye diseases, so this field is
ideally suited for deep learning applications,” says Medeiros, who is Duke
Ophthalmology’s vice chair of technology and leads the clinical research unit.
“The development of such applications has been increasing at an astounding
rate. In several disciplines, including ophthalmology, researchers have proven
that deep learning algorithms can actually outperform humans in some tasks.”

## Minimizing mistakes, maximizing efficiency

Deep learning algorithms not only reduce labor and equipment costs but can
also eliminate errors that occur from the subjective interpretation of
diagnostic images by humans. They can also bring screening and diagnosis to
underserved areas where specialists may be limited.

“There will always be a significant role for human contribution and
physicians’ expertise, so there is no need to worry about a future in which
patients are treated entirely by computers,” assures Eleonora Lad, MD, PhD, an
associate professor of ophthalmology and clinician-scientist who is
researching applications of AI to improve diagnosis and treatment of age-
related macular degeneration. “Physicians have limited time and bandwidth.
Machine learning can provide us with new information, faster, so we can make
more informed diagnoses and spend more time working with our patients on the
best treatment plan.”

## Duke Ophthalmology at the forefront

Duke Ophthalmology has a long track record of developing AI technology to
improve eye care. Sina Farsiu, PhD, who holds joint appointments in the Pratt
School of Engineering and the Department of Ophthalmology, is a pioneer in the
use of AI in ophthalmology. He established the Vision and Image Processing
Laboratory at Duke Eye Center a decade ago and has developed numerous
ophthalmic image analysis tools that are freely shared online and used in
multicenter clinical trials around the world.

Duke University is also finding innovative ways to apply AI to a range of
disciplines. In 2019, Duke appointed Lawrence Carin, PhD, one of the world’s
leading experts on machine learning and artificial intelligence, as vice
president of research. Duke Ophthalmology looks forward to collaborating with
the AI Health Data Science Initiative, leveraging the university’s focus on
artificial intelligence and its culture of multidisciplinary collaboration.

“Larry’s team members are experts in computer science; we have the top minds
in ophthalmology,” Medeiros says. “We bring them clinical challenges, and they
bring us innovative ways of creating algorithms to solve them. Together, it’s
a great fit that would be hard to find anywhere else.”

Carin agrees. “Duke Ophthalmology is very well positioned in this space, as it
already has multiple clinician-scientists who recognize the opportunity and
are engaged in leading research. Duke is also the home of leadership in the
fundamentals of AI. By bringing Duke Ophthalmology and the broader Duke
methodological AI leaders together, Duke is positioned to be a global leader
on the application of AI to the transformation of ophthalmological care.”

Duke Ophthalmology is applying AI to advance research and improve treatment
for several common and important eye diseases. Some examples:

**Glaucoma**

Glaucoma is a leading cause of irreversible blindness in the world. Because
the disease remains largely asymptomatic until late stages, there is a great
need to develop affordable approaches for screening _before_ visual impairment
occurs – when early intervention can still save sight.

Medeiros’s research team has developed several AI algorithms that promise to
detect glaucoma more quickly and efficiently. One algorithm has been proven to
accurately quantify the amount of damage a patient has in the optic nerve from
just a fundus photograph, and tell us whether the patient is likely to have
glaucoma or not.[i] Using the power of AI, researchers were able to closely
replicate OCT estimates of neural loss. The method also removed subjectivity,
and even outperformed human specialists in the interpretation of fundus
photographs for glaucoma.[ii] And, because photographs are less expensive and
more widely available than OCT, this method offers the potential to bring
improved screening and diagnosis to underserved locations.

**Age-Related Macular Degeneration**

Once age-related macular degeneration (AMD) progresses to its late stages,
there is no treatment for 85% of cases with the dry form (geographic atrophy),
and loss of central vision is inevitable. Lad is on a mission to find
biomarkers that predict disease progression, both to better understand the
genesis and progression of disease and to test potential treatments on
patients before vision loss becomes irreversible. AI is helping to speed that
search.

“The National Eye Institute’s multicenter, prospective, Age-Related Eye
Disease Study 2 (AREDS2) is providing a true goldmine of data on aging and
AMD, including several types of high-resolution retinal images and
demographic, functional, and genetic data from study participants over several
years. We are collaborating with Larry Carin’s team to mine the retinal images
from this study and to develop deep learning algorithms to uncover biomarkers
that indicate rapid disease progression,” Lad says.

“It took years and much grant funding for research associates in Dr. Cynthia
Toth’s lab to grade every OCT image from the study and develop a true
encyclopedia of annotated OCT features that predict disease progression,” she
notes. “Using deep learning/AI, we hope to do this much more quickly and
inexpensively, so we can predict which patients would progress to vision loss
over a timeframe as short as 1-2 years and can enroll them into promising
clinical trials.”

Already, the team has created an algorithm capable of grading three-
dimensional OCT images with 91% accuracy at predicting which patients will
develop geographic atrophy within one year.

“After these algorithms are refined and validated, they can be incorporated
into OCT machines,” Lad says. “Then, ophthalmologists and optometrists could
screen their patients during routine exams, determine their risk of
progression to advanced disease (neovascular or dry), and refer them to a
retinal specialist.”

**Diabetic Retinopathy**

Farsiu, together with Duke Ophthalmology clinician-scientists Scott Cousins,
MD, and Prithu Mettu, MD, developed the first algorithm that could distinguish
AMD and diabetic retinopathy from each other, and from normal eyes, using OCT
images.[iii] This was the first algorithm with the ability to process images
from different centers with different imaging protocols.

Farsiu’s postdoctoral mentee, Reza Rasti, PhD, in collaboration with Michael
Allingham, MD, PhD, Cousins, and Mettu, is now using AI to identify which
diabetic retinopathy patients will respond best to anti-VEGF injections –
_before_ treatment starts. That means patients who would not respond well
won’t have to go through this vision-saving, but complicated and expensive,
treatment.

**Imaging Technology**

AI’s computational techniques also enable Duke researchers to develop more
elegant imaging modalities, notes Farsiu, whose Vision and Image Processing
Laboratory was the first to develop a fully automatic deep learning algorithm
that successfully uses clinical-grade OCT images of the retina to detect
multiple diseases of the eye.

“By replacing optical components of ophthalmic imaging systems with
computational components, we can make them much smaller, lighter, and more
accessible,” he says. “For example, in collaboration with Joseph Izatt, PhD,
we have been able to shrink an adaptive optics scanning laser ophthalmoscope
from a desktop size down to a portable handheld unit, which allows us to use
this tool on infants and children, who have a hard time sitting still in front
of a traditional unit.”

**Data Analysis for Clinical Trials**

Farsiu’s lab is also collaborating with Duke retinal specialist Glenn Jaffe,
MD, to use AI to rapidly analyze data in multicenter international clinical
trials for new therapies for blinding diseases. In one study, Farsiu’s PhD
student, Jessica Loo, developed a fully automatic algorithm that could
replicate the result of the clinical trial without _any_ human involvement.
This is a transformative change from the standard method of data analysis,
which requires a human expert to review a computer’s analysis of each image to
correct its mistakes—a time-consuming and expensive task.

“These are preliminary results, which we will need to replicate in other
clinical studies,” Farsiu notes. “But if we can successfully conduct the data
analysis for an entire clinical trial fully automatically without human
involvement, and get the same results, that would significantly reduce the
cost of trials, eliminate human error, and get promising treatments to
patients faster.”

The U.S. Food & Drug Administration, the agency within the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services that assures the safety and effectiveness of drugs
and medical devices in clinical trials, also recognizes the power and promise
of AI. The FDA has recently organized an Ophthalmic Imaging Collaborative
Community group as a strategic priority for the agency. Lad is a key member of
this effort, whose goal is to develop guidelines for the use of AI
technologies in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with eye diseases.

The ultimate goal, Medeiros notes, is to apply AI to clinical practice in ways
that can improve patient care and satisfaction. That requires many stages and
very diverse expertise. “First, we need to develop ideas to address clinically
relevant questions. Then we need to gather the relevant data, build, refine,
and validate the AI algorithms. And ultimately, we need to integrate those
algorithms into clinical practice and prove that they lead to better patient
outcomes.”

The department envisions developing a comprehensive Center for Artificial
Intelligence in Ophthalmology at Duke integrated with the university’s AI
research enterprise, that would unite clinician-scientists, engineers, data
scientists, and health outcomes researchers, with the goal of supporting AI
initiatives through each stage, from idea through implementation. The center
would also help researchers mine the vast amount of data and images stored
within the Duke Eye Center’s electronic health records system.

Increasingly, health care providers and researchers are seeing the
opportunities that AI can open up. “Momentum is building,” Medeiros says.
“This is a transformational moment in health care, and for all of us who are
involved in patient care, artificial intelligence will help us do better
medicine.”

CITATIONS:

[i] From Machine to Machine: An OCT-Trained Deep Learning Algorithm for
Objective Quantification of Glaucomatous Damage in Fundus Photographs.
_Ophthalmology._ Medeiros FA, Jammal AA, Thompson AC. 2019 Apr;126(4):513-521.
doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2018.12.033. Epub 2018 Dec 20.

A Deep Learning Algorithm to Quantify Neuroretinal Rim Loss from Optic Disc
Photographs. _Am J Ophthalmol_ _._ Thompson AC, Jammal AA, Medeiros FA. 2019
May;201:9-18. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2019.01.011. Epub 2019 Jan 26.

[ii] Human Versus Machine: Comparing a Deep Learning Algorithm to Human
Gradings for Detecting Glaucoma on Fundus Photographs. _Am J Ophthalmol._
Jammal AA, Thompson AC, Mariottoni EB, Berchuck SI, Urata CN, Estrela T, Wakil
SM, Costa VP, Medeiros FA. 2019 Nov 12. pii: S0002-9394(19)30543-4. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2019.11.006. [Epub ahead of print] PMID: 31730838

[iii] Fully Automated Detection of Diabetic Macular Edema and Dry Age-Related
Macular Degeneration from Optical Coherence Tomography Images. _Biomedical
Optics Express_. Srinivasan PP, Kim LA, Mettu PS, Cousins SW, Comer GM, Izatt
JA, and Farsiu S. 2014 Oct;5(10), pp. 3568-3577.

Machine Learning Analysis of SD-OCT Features Predicting Short-term Progression
of Intermediate Age-Related Macular Degeneration to Geographic Atrophy.
Presentation to the Retina Society, Sept 2019, London, UK. Lad EM, Sleiman K,
Banks DL, Hariharan S, Futoma J, Clemons T, Chew EY, Toth CA, for the AREDS2
Ancillary SDOCT Study Group.

## Related News

December 04, 2019

### Farsiu, Krolik Elected Fellows of the IEEE

September 20, 2017

### Farsiu Receives Signal Processing Award

August 27, 2014

### Sina Farsiu: Processing an Avalanche of Images

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

