

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Capturing Free-Space Optical Light for High-Speed WiFi

February 9, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Plasmonic speed enhancements previously constrained to nanoscale phenomena are
replicated on macroscopic devices

Visible and infrared light can carry more data than radio waves, but has
always been confined to a hard-wired, fiber-optic cable. Working with
Facebook’s Connectivity Lab, a Duke research team has now made a major advance
toward the dream of ditching the fiber in fiber optics.

While working to create a free-space optical communication system for high-
speed wireless internet, the researchers also show that speed and efficiency
properties previously demonstrated on tiny, single-unit plasmonic antennas can
also be achieved on larger, centimeter-scale devices.

The research appears online Feb. 11 in the journal Optica.

In 2016, researchers from Internet.org’s Connectivity Lab—a subsidiary of
Facebook—outlined a new type of light detector that could potentially be used
for free-space optical communication. Traditionally, hard-wired optical fiber
connections can be much faster than radio wave wireless connections. This is
because visible and near-infrared light frequencies can carry much more
information than radio waves (WiFi, Bluetooth, etc).

But using these higher frequencies in wireless devices is difficult. Current
setups use either LEDs or lasers aimed at detectors that can reorient
themselves to optimize the connection. It would be much more efficient,
however, if a detector could capture light from different directions all at
once. The catch is that increasing the size of an optical receiver also makes
it slower.

This was also the case for the Connectivity Lab’s design. A spherical bundle
of fluorescent fibers captured blue laser light from any direction and re-
emitted green light that could be funneled onto a small receiver. While the
prototype was able to achieve rates of two gigabits per second, most fiber
optic internet providers offer up to 10 Gb, and higher-end systems can push
into the thousands.

Looking for a way to speed up their free-space optical communication designs,
the Connectivity Lab turned to Maiken Mikkelsen, the James N. and Elizabeth H.
Barton Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Physics
at Duke. Over the past decade, Mikkelsen has been a leading researcher in the
field of plasmonics, which traps light on the surface of tiny nanocubes to
increase a device’s speed and efficiency at transmitting and absorbing light
by more than a thousand times.

“The Connectivity Lab’s prototype was constrained by the emissions lifetime of
the fluorescent dye they were using, causing it to be inefficient and slow,”
said Mikkelsen. “They wanted to increase the efficiency and came across my
work showing ultrafast response times in fluorescent systems. My research had
only proven that these efficiency rates were possible on single, nanoscale
systems, so we didn’t know if it could scale up to a centimeter-scale
detector.”

All previous work, Mikkelsen explains, has been proof-of-principle
demonstrations with a single antenna. These systems typically involve metal
nanocubes spaced tens to hundreds of nanometers apart and placed just a
handful of nanometers above a metal film. While an experiment might use tens
of thousands of nanocubes over a large area, research showing its potential
for superfast properties has historically cherrypicked just one cube for
measurement.

In the new paper, Mikkelsen and Andrew Traverso, a postdoctoral researcher
working in her laboratory, brought a more purposeful and optimized design to a
large-area plasmonic device. Silver nanocubes just 60 nanometers wide are
spaced about 200 nanometers apart, covering 17% of the device’s surface. These
nanocubes sit just seven nanometers above a thin layer of silver, spaced by a
coating of polymer that is jam-packed with four layers of fluorescent dye.

The nanocubes interact with the silver base in a way that enhances the
photonic capabilities of the fluorescent dye, causing a 910-fold increase in
the overall fluorescence and a 133-fold emission rate enhancement. The
superfast antenna also can capture light from a 120-degree field of view and
convert it to a directional source with a record-high overall efficiency of
30%.

“Plasmonic effects have always been known to lose a lot of efficiency over a
large area,” said Traverso. “But we’ve shown that you can take attractive
ultrafast emission features of a nanoscale device and recreate it on a
macroscopic scale. And our method is very easily transferrable to fabrication
facilities. We can create these largescale plasmonic metasurfaces in under an
hour with pipettes and Petri dishes, just simple liquid depositions on metal
films.”

The overall effect of the demonstration is the ability to capture light from a
large field of view and funnel it into a narrow cone without losing any speed.
To move forward with this technology, researchers would need to piece several
plasmonic devices together to cover a 360-degree field of view and once again
include a separate interior detector. While there is work to be done, the
researchers see a viable path forward.

“In this demonstration, our structure acts to efficiently relay the photons
from a wide angle into a narrow angle without losing speed,” said Mikkelsen.
“We didn’t integrate a regular fast photodetector like the Connectivity Lab
did in their original paper yet. But we solved the major bottleneck in the
design and the future applications are very exciting!”

This work was funded by Facebook and Air Force Office of Scientific Research
(FA9550-15-1-0301, FA9550-18-1-0326).

CITATION: “Low-loss, Centimeter-Scale Plasmonic Metasurface for Ultrafast
Optoelectronics,” Andrew J. Traverso, Jiani Huang, Thibault Peyronel, Guoce
Yang, Tobias G. Tiecke, and Maiken H. Mikkelsen. Optica, Feb. 11, 2021. DOI:
10.1264/OPTICA.400731

## Related News

July 27, 2015

### Superfast Fluorescence Sets New Speed Record

October 13, 2014

### Revving Up Fluorescence for Superfast LEDs

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

