

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Industry Experts Enrich Duke FinTech’s First Year

December 14, 2020

Weekly Friday seminar series inspires, motivates and exposes students to the
latest developments in traditional and emerging financial sectors

Duke's new Master of Engineering in Financial Technology (FinTech) program is
aimed at fueling innovation in the finance industry by teaching in-demand
computing and programming skills along with industry-specific business
fundamentals. Among the first programs of its kind based in an engineering
school, Duke's FinTech degree is designed to prepare graduates to meet a
growing need for technical expertise in the traditional and emerging finance
sectors.

An integral part of the experience in its first year has proven to be seminars
every Friday in which students engage with FinTech innovators and industry
veterans. Jimmie Lenz, the program's director, envisioned the Friday seminars
as an opportunity to inspire, motivate and expose students to the latest
developments in traditional and emerging financial sectors. The series'
experts exemplify the unique advantage of Duke's FinTech program—its strong
foundation in engineering and technology—and students have responded
enthusiastically.

"We have a very different perspective than you would get at a business school,
students appreciate that and see the value in that," Lenz commented.

The series started in September with one of its most dynamic speakers, Sultan
Meghji, a serial founder with a deep quantitative background and the co-
founder and CEO of Neocova, a firm that offers AI, analytics and other cloud-
based systems to financial institutions. Meghji shared his vast start-up
experience with students, breaking down a critical element that separates
billion-dollar companies from those that operate in the tens of millions.

"The difference is...entirely based on hiring people who can live in the
startup but grow into the corporation," said Meghji. "You have to get really
good at not just making sure you're hiring the right functional skill sets,
but the right culture, and be able to rip the Band-Aid off if it doesn't work.
And in a lot of cases, if you're the founder, it's you."

Throughout the series, students heard from the frontlines of FinTech
innovation. In October, the seminar featured REIN, a FinTech startup that is
changing the way that insurance products are created, distributed and managed.
REIN's leadership walked students through the company's emergence into the
insurance space, from their beginnings in drone insurance, to their Volvo
Financial Services 10-week challenge win, and the establishment of their
exclusive relationship with Liberty Mutual.

> "The market is hungry for this sort of skillset. It's hungry from a FinTech
> standpoint, hungry from an AI standpoint, hungry from an actual analytics
> standpoint, hungry from a business development standpoint."
>
> **John Fimbel**  
>  SVP of business development, Mastercard

Like Meghji, REIN's team stressed the importance of recruiting the right
people. Their partnership with Duke has been a helpful path to identifying new
talent. Kimberly Richards, REIN's General Counsel told students, "Our
internship program with Duke has been so critical in helping us thrive and
helping our team continue to innovate."

Logan Allin, self-described "FinTech nerd," Duke alum, and general partner and
founder of FinVC, gave students the venture capital perspective in his Friday
seminar. FinVC invests globally early through growth and late-stage FinTech.
Allin outlined FinVC's process for pinpointing investment targets, which
contrasts with the more traditional method of evaluating inbound proposals
from companies. His experience has taught him a lot about criteria that
precede a successful investment, such as the importance of talent. FinVC looks
for companies with CEOs that have a technical background that enables them to
understand the foundational engineering and tech culture that they need to
establish.

Olivia Shen, the seminar's student host, appreciated the real-world
perspective provided by speakers like Allin and raved about the industry
exposure. She was impressed with how approachable the speakers were, saying,
"They took our opinions into account and were willing to share their thoughts
about the early stages of their careers. They were really generous."

Speakers clearly recognized the importance of new blood for the industry's
future. John Fimbel, a FinTech entrepreneur, SVP of business development with
Mastercard, and the series' final speaker, was direct with students about the
urgent need for their expertise.

"I think with the unique skill set of the students I've come across, that you
can play it in a lot of different directions," said Fimbel. "The market is
hungry for this sort of skillset. It's hungry from a FinTech standpoint,
hungry from an AI standpoint, hungry from an actual analytics standpoint,
hungry from a business development standpoint."

The seminar series will return in Fall 2021 to bring next year's students
practical, first-person accounts of the wide array of opportunities in
FinTech.

More about Duke FinTech

## Related News

July 02, 2020

### Duke Launches Master’s Program in Cybersecurity

February 12, 2020

### Duke Engineering Is Running Blockchain

September 12, 2019

### Duke Launches New Master of Engineering in Financial Technology

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

