

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Fitting Name for New Gross Hall Space: 'The Foundry'

April 29, 2015

Evoking the energetic spirit of industry and entrepreneurship, the new “maker
space” in the lower level of Gross Hall has been named **The Foundry: The
Design Foundry @ Duke**.

The name was selected from 174 naming ideas submitted by 121 students, faculty
and staff during a campus-wide contest.

“There were many, many creative submissions – some even came attached with
prototyped logo art,” said George Truskey, senior associate dean for research
at the Pratt School of Engineering and leader of The Foundry’s steering
committee. “But, for the committee, ‘The Foundry’ summed up in a word the
design-build spirit of this innovative new space.”

The 7,600-square-foot facility, open to all Duke students, will include an
optics lab and light machine shop, workbenches, team meeting spaces, and
dedicated project rooms that can be reserved for short-term and long-term
project needs. Construction will be completed this summer.

****Sponsors of The Foundry include Pratt, Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship,
the Nicholas School of the Environment, the Department of Physics, the
Information Initiative at Duke, the Innovation Co-Lab, and the Duke University
Energy Initiative.

‘The Foundry’ name was such a good idea that three different contestants
submitted it independently. The committee named them all winners and gave each
a grand prize of $100 in Duke Stores credit and priority space scheduling in
The Foundry next semester. The winners are:

  * **George Bernard** , a freshman in the Pratt School of Engineering
  * **Nick Caira** , a first-year PhD student studying under David R. Smith in
    the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * **Kyle Bradbury** , managing director of the Energy Data Analytics Lab at
    the Duke University Energy Initiative

For Bernard, who plans on studying electrical engineering and computer
science, the creative spark was his experience working at a blacksmith’s forge
during high school.

And for Caira, who is also Duke men’s crew coach, said the word foundry came
to him almost immediately after reading a description of the new space.

Bradbury, who holds an MS in electrical engineering from Duke, said “design
foundry” epitomized the hard work and creative energy needed to move an idea
from conception to reality.

“To me, the space was not only about engineering but also about ideas that
connect with design, including business and the arts,” Bradbury said. “It will
truly be a design foundry.”

Find out more about The Foundry at: foundry.duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

