

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Focus Program Introduces Global Energy Topic

February 21, 2018

Program is designed with the first-year engineering curriculum in mind but
hopes to attract students campus-wide

Beginning next year, first-year students at Duke University interested in
pursuing careers in the energy sector will have a new opportunity to explore
the subject through a focused, in-depth program.

The Duke Focus Program offers more than a dozen interdisciplinary clusters
that expose first-semester students to ideas from the vantage points of
different disciplines across campus. Beginning fall semester of 2018, the
program will add a new cluster titled “Global Energy: Past, Present, and
Future.” Not only will the new cluster add an important topic previously
missing from the program’s offerings, it will be the first Duke Focus Program
in almost ten years designed to fit the curriculum of first-year engineering
students.

“For the majority of the Duke Focus Program’s existence, the classes being
offered were mostly through the Trinity College of Arts & Sciences, and so did
not fit well into the rigid curriculum of first-year students in the Pratt
School of Engineering,” said Nico Hotz, assistant professor of the practice of
mechanical engineering and materials science and the organizer of the new
program. “This new Global Energy cluster is designed to give Pratt students a
better opportunity to participate in the Duke Focus Program.”

While the new program in Global Energy is more heavily focused on engineering
than other clusters, it is still available to both Pratt and Trinity students.
Trying to make the curriculum friendly to both, Hotz says he hopes there will
be a mix of students, as Pratt students would benefit from having more
connections with Trinity students, and vice versa.

As is the case in all clusters, the Global Energy program will provide options
for four classes, of which students must take two. The classes available for
2018 include a class based around a sustainable energy design project
associated with Pratt’s new first-year design course, an introduction to
contemporary energy topics, the exploration of novel materials and
technologies that promise to affect the future of energy, and a history course
on the use of energy and its generation throughout the ages.

“The history course explores how deep energy runs in our society and how the
choices made and technologies developed relating to energy production have
shaped our country and the world,” said Jonathon Free, a postdoctoral
associate in the history department and a member of the Duke Energy
Initiative. “Students will also leave the class having learned critical
thinking skills and how to make compelling arguments, which both have benefits
that transcend any specific discipline.”

Besides the core classes, the Duke Focus Program includes small group
seminars, shared housing arrangements that facilitate discussion and scholarly
exploration, field trips, travel, community service and research. The Duke
Focus Program as a whole admits between 20 and 25 percent of the Duke first-
year class, and applications are now available online.

“Most students I see who are interested in energy don’t really get an actual
taste of the subject until their junior year,” said Hotz. “With this program,
we hope to catch students interested in energy, no matter what field of study
they’re planning to pursue, right in their first weeks and introduce them
directly to all the work and research that Duke does related to energy.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

