

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Former Fighter Pilot Steers Nation’s Course on Pilotless Drones

January 15, 2014

Mary "Missy" Cummings, is a faculty member in Duke's Pratt School of
Engineering

_Mary "Missy" Cummings, an associate professor of mechanical engineering and
materials science,testified before the United States Congress on the afternoon
of Wednesday, January 15, 2014, on a topic that many throughout the country
turn to her for expertise on—drones. Read more about how Missy went from Naval
jet jockey to fighter pilot to expert professor in human/technology
interfaces, recently landing at Duke._

__

How do you get from Top Gun to college professor helping to shape national
policy on one of the hottest technological topics of the day? Mary “Missy”
Cummings may be the only woman in the world who can answer that question—and
one of the few looked to by everyone from the United States Congress to
Stephen Colbert for advice on drones.

An associate professor and one of the newest additions to the Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University’s Pratt School
of Engineering, Cummings followed her father’s footsteps into the Navy,
declaring her intention to become a female jet jockey in 1987—not
coincidentally just one year after the release of the blockbuster Top Gun.

“I like roller coasters and going fast, so becoming a fighter pilot was a
natural fit for my personality,” said Cummings. “It sounded like fun. And it
was.”

Missy spent the next decade rising to the rank of lieutenant and becoming one
of the first female fighter pilots while flying F/A-18 Hornets and A-4
Skyhawks—an experience that planted the seeds for her next career as a college
professor.

The cockpits she flew in, according to Cummings, were terribly designed. She
witnessed many friends die as the result of mistakes that, while owing to a
certain amount of pilot error, were also due in part to poor design. Her
experiences led Missy to a deep interest in how humans interact with
technology and how those interfaces and systems can be perfected.

“I would not have transitioned into academia if I hadn’t found out that you
could research human interaction with technology,” said Cummings, who earned
her master’s in space systems engineering in the Naval Postgraduate School and
her doctorate in systems engineering from the University of Virginia. “And my
background was actually perfect training for becoming a professor. In the
fighter pilot world you’re trained to think on your feet and communicate
professionally. I went to the Navy’s Top Gun school of public speaking and
presenting. How many people get that kind of opportunity?"

While completing her doctorate, Cummings was an assistant professor at
Virginia Tech for a few years before joining the faculty at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in 2003. There, she founded the Humans and Automation
Laboratory—HAL for short—which focuses on how humans and computers interact to
make decisions in complex sociotechnical systems.

With her experiences as a Naval fighter pilot coupled with her studies in
human-computer system interactions, it should come as no surprise that she
quickly became one of the nation’s leading experts on unmanned aerial
vehicles—aka drones.

“I was in the very first group of researchers that started looking at drones,”
said Cummings. “The human interaction, policy issues, design issues—I was way
out in front of the drone community in terms of research. And because I had
all this military experience, I understood the domain and how to talk the
talk, and my research program took off very quickly.”

Today, Cummings serves on the Naval Research Advisory Committee, the State of
North Carolina’s Unmanned Aerial System Implementation Committee and the
Stimson Commission on U.S. Drone Policy, among others.

But her research doesn’t stop with drones. Cummings and her laboratory HAL,
now based at Duke, have many more projects under way. Cummings works with a
variety of autonomous systems including driverless cars and mining operations.
She also looks at some of the consequences of increased automation, such as
supervisor boredom.

“People are just bored out of their minds supervising these nearly autonomous
systems,” said Cummings. “So not only do we have to deal with that, we have to
figure out how to keep the human in the loop – someone who is not an expert in
robotics – enough to understand how to solve problems. We have to balance the
strengths and weaknesses of both humans and automated systems, because
automated systems can be very brittle and they can break at the worst times.”

With more processes being turned over to computers every day, Cumming’s work
is just getting started.

“In the near future we’re going to need more researchers working in this
interdisciplinary space who understand not just the science and technology but
also something about human psychology,” said Cummings. “It’s a field that I
think we’ll see grow a lot as we start to see autonomous driverless cars and
robots in the home. As those systems become more prevalent, there’s going to
be a greater need for people who understand the human systems connection.

“Duke has a very progressive vision of the future and I like the engineering
community; it is very tight-knit. And with the interdisciplinary nature of my
work, it helps to have students from so many disciplines nearby. I need
students from mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, computer
science, neuroscience, and many students from the Trinity College of Arts and
Sciences. With the wide range of disciplines that Duke provides, it’s easy to
be collaborative.”

“It is a delight to have Missy Cummings join our faculty and bring a high
level of energy, insight and vision that will be a stimulus to our students
and faculty colleagues,” said Earl Dowell, chair of the Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science. “She not only will be working
with Pratt faculty across the school but also with colleagues in the Duke
Institute for Brain Sciences. This all promises to be a particularly exciting
blending of her wonderful abilities and those of our current faculty and
staff.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

