

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Four Questions With Jonathan Owens

January 25, 2023

Jonathan Owens is the Pratt School of Engineering’s Director of Business
Development and Industry Partnerships in the school’s Office of Development,
Alumni Affairs & Corporate Relations. In this new role, Jonathan focuses on
expanding Duke Engineering’s authentic and beneficial relationships with
industry, government and foundations

What did you do before you came to Pratt?

I am a mechanical engineer. After graduating from the University of Alabama, I
worked for ExxonMobil executing large capital projects. The job took me to
other countries, including more than four years in Nigeria.

Later, I earned my MBA from UNC-Chapel Hill and then joined the LORD
Corporation, where I was primarily focused on technology transfer, new product
introduction and strategic partnerships. In my last role with LORD, I was
global operations growth and innovation director for a business unit focused
on electrical vehicle applications, supporting over $200 million in capital
projects across six plants in four countries.

When I joined Duke in summer 2022, I learned more about Pratt’s long and
productive engagement with the LORD Corporation supporting engineering
research and education, which culminated in the historic $261 million LORD
distribution to Duke in 2019.

What’s the vision for your role?

There are many remarkable things about the Pratt School of Engineering's
culture. Dean Jerry Lynch and Director of Development Jim Ruth have tasked me
with developing and growing the part that deals with industry engagement.

Our vision is that regular, deep and meaningful industry engagement in what we
do regarding research, education and service becomes a way of life at Duke
Engineering.

How would that benefit Duke Engineering?

To be an organization that is relevant, to provide the best engineering
education to our students, to guide our research where it could be most
impactful and to provide a way for our discoveries to reach people where those
innovations can be put to use, we need engagement with external partners.
These relationships also provide another avenue for resources that can come in
to support our efforts.

When these engagements are systemic and effective, a virtuous cycle can
develop that is mutually beneficial and aligns with our shared goal of
engineering a better world.

What are you working on?

I’m leading broad discussions about ways in which Duke Engineering could
create networks of partners. We’re aiming for a program that is clear,
structured and easy to engage with. Discussions are continuing. Stay tuned for
more details later this year.

More news from Duke Blueprint

## Related News

September 22, 2022

### Four Questions With Grace Beason

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

