

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gene Therapy Might Grow Replacement Tissue Inside the Body

February 18, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Duke researchers use gene therapy to direct stem cells into becoming new
cartilage on a synthetic scaffold even after implantation into a living body

By combining a synthetic scaffolding material with gene delivery techniques,
researchers at Duke University are getting closer to being able to generate
replacement cartilage where it's needed in the body.

Performing tissue repair with stem cells typically requires applying copious
amounts of growth factor proteins—a task that is very expensive and becomes
challenging once the developing material is implanted within a body. In a new
study, however, Duke researchers found a way around this limitation by
genetically altering the stem cells to make the necessary growth factors all
on their own.

They incorporated viruses used to deliver gene therapy to the stem cells into
a synthetic material that serves as a template for tissue growth. The
resulting material is like a computer; the scaffold provides the hardware and
the virus provides the software that programs the stem cells to produce the
desired tissue.

The study appears online the week of Feb. 17 in the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences.

Farshid Guilak, director of orthopaedic research at Duke University Medical
Center, has spent years developing biodegradable synthetic scaffolding that
mimics the mechanical properties of cartilage. One challenge he and all
biomedical researchers face is getting stem cells to form cartilage within and
around the scaffolding, especially after it is implanted into a living being.

The traditional approach has been to introduce growth factor proteins, which
signal the stem cells to differentiate into cartilage. Once the process is
under way, the growing cartilage can be implanted where needed.

“But a major limitation in engineering tissue replacements has been the
difficulty in delivering growth factors to the stem cells once they are
implanted in the body,” said Guilak, who is also a professor in Duke’s
Department of Biomedical Engineering. “There’s a limited amount of growth
factor that you can put into the scaffolding, and once it’s released, it’s all
gone. We need a method for long-term delivery of growth factors, and that’s
where the gene therapy comes in.”

For ideas on how to solve this problem, Guilak turned to his colleague Charles
Gersbach, an assistant professor of biomedical engineering and an expert in
gene therapy. Gersbach proposed introducing new genes into the stem cells so
that they produce the necessary growth factors themselves.

But the conventional methods for gene therapy are complex and difficult to
translate into a strategy that would be feasible as a commercial product.

This type of gene therapy generally requires gathering stem cells, modifying
them with a virus that transfers the new genes, culturing the resulting
genetically altered stem cells until they reach a critical mass, applying them
to the synthetic cartilage scaffolding and, finally, implanting it into the
body.

“There are a few challenges with that process, one of them being that there
are way too many extra steps,” said Gersbach. “So we turned to a technique I
had previously developed that affixes the viruses that deliver the new genes
onto a material’s surface.”

The new study uses Gersbach’s technique—dubbed biomaterial-mediated gene
delivery—to induce the stem cells placed on Guilak’s synthetic cartilage
scaffolding to produce growth factor proteins. The results show that the
technique works and that the resulting composite material is at least as good
biochemically and biomechanically as if the growth factors were introduced in
the laboratory.

“We want the new cartilage to form in and around the synthetic scaffold at a
rate that can match or exceed the scaffold’s degradation,” said Jonathan
Brunger, a graduate student who has spent time in both Guilak’s and Gersbach’s
laboratories developing and testing the new technique. “So while the stem
cells are making new tissue (in the body), the scaffold can withstand the load
of the joint. In the ideal case, one would eventually end up with a viable
cartilage tissue substitute replacing the synthetic material.”

While this study focuses on cartilage regeneration, Guilak and Gersbach say
that the technique could be applied to many kinds of tissues, especially
orthopaedic tissues such as tendons, ligaments and bones. And because the
platform comes ready to use with any stem cell, it presents an important step
toward commercialization.

“One of the advantages of our method is getting rid of the growth factor
delivery, which is expensive and unstable, and replacing it with scaffolding
functionalized with the viral gene carrier,” said Gersbach. “The virus-laden
scaffolding could be mass-produced and just sitting in a clinic ready to go.
We hope this gets us one step closer to a translatable product.”

This work was supported in part by the Nancy Taylor Foundation for Chronic
Diseases, the Arthritis Foundation, the AO Foundation, the National Science
Foundation (CAREER Award CBET-1151035) and the National Institutes of Health
(AR061042, AR50245, AR48852, AG15768, AR48182, AG46927 and OD008586).

###

CITATION: “Scaffold-mediated lentiviral transduction for functional tissue
engineering of cartilage.” Brunger, J.M., Huynh, N.P.T., Guenther, C.M.,
Perez-Pinera, P., Moutos, F.T., Sanchez-Adams, J., Gersbach C.A., and Guilak
F. PNAS Plus, 2014. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1321744111/-/DCSupplemental

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

