

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Geometries of Data

July 10, 2013 | by Ashley Yeager

At Duke: From molecules to threat detection

We’re used to objects having a certain length, width and depth. They usually
exist in time as well, giving them four dimensions.

But to Mauro Maggioni, a professor of mathematics, computer science and
electrical and computer engineering (ECE) at Duke, four dimensions aren’t
enough to understand how enzymes and proteins work, or to distinguish tanks
from trees in military images.

Maggioni works with the geometry of high-dimensional data—millions of points
graphed in hundreds or thousands of dimensions. For example, to understand the
motion of biomolecules, researchers simulate countless possible molecule
configurations. Even on powerful computers, these simulations take a very long
time to run.

Collaborating with chemists, Maggioni analyzes all the coordinates of atoms in
a molecule and identifies geometric and dynamical properties that let him
build low-dimensional representations of the molecule’s dynamics. The
simplified representations can then speed up simulation time, and understand
and map out the complex landscapes accessed by the molecule, he says.

Another of Maggioni’s “big data” projects is studying the hundreds of colors
in what is known as hyperspectral imaging. Right now, images from smartphones
and hand-held cameras have three basic colors, all in visible light.
Hyperspectral images, on the other hand, combine colors from across the
electromagnetic spectrum—everything from radio to ultraviolet radiation—and
provide clues to the chemical properties of photographed materials.

“With such multi-dimensional data coordinates, you can tell the perfect time
to harvest a crop, see if a gas leak is really chemical warfare, or monitor
concentration of key chemicals in blood,” Maggioni said. He is also working
with ECE professors David Brady and Larry Carin to design faster and more
accurate X-ray scanners, which use new algorithms and imaging designs to
screen airport baggage for weapons and explosives.

One feature of many of these data sets is that they change with time and have
different levels of granularity, or bits of data, at various stages.
Maggioni’s algorithms allow him to detect and measure these changes in
molecular configuration space, hyperspectral movies or networks and network
traffic.

“The algorithms often enjoy a sort of universality dear to mathematicians, in
that they are easily adapted to different types of data, as they attempt to
capture crucial properties of data by learning them from the data itself,”
Maggioni said.

\--from _Duke Engineering: Leading Research 2013_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

