

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Getting the Graduate Experience in Silicon Valley

April 7, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Duke creates new program in Silicon Valley to immerse engineering, law
graduate students in entrepreneurship

Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering, Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Initiative and Law School are launching a summer program that takes graduate
students to the world’s hub for technical innovation and enterprise. The new
offering will immerse students in the world of technology businesses both
large and startup while teaching them the skills needed to succeed in Silicon
Valley.

The four-week course runs from late-May to mid-Junex and includes daily
meetings for the students involved. Twice a week, morning coursework will be
followed by afternoon speakers from nearby companies. The other three days
feature site visits to some of the large, marquee corporations as well as the
newest startups.

Program organizers are also working with area Duke alumni to organize
internship opportunities for participants in Silicon Valley for the remainder
of the summer. The program could help many find a permanent home in the Bay
Area after graduation, while also providing a recruiting tool to attract top
graduate students who want to take advantage of what Duke has to offer, but
also want to have access to the career opportunities provided by Silicon
Valley.

The inaugural program will include 20 students from Pratt master’s programs
and the Law and Entrepreneurship LLM program at the Duke University School of
Law.

“In addition to introducing our engineers to the business side of
entrepreneurship, they’ll also be influenced by their fellow students from the
law school,” said Brad Fox, associate dean and executive director of Pratt’s
Professional Master’s Program. “A lot of our students have interests in
Silicon Valley, but you often have to physically be there to really get your
foot in the door.”

While the class will have many similarities on paper to the Duke in Silicon
Valley program already offered to undergraduates, the graduate version will
build on that experience.

“In this graduate and professional course, we’re starting at a very different
base level and then building on that aggressively,” said Kathie Amato, senior
strategist for education and director of undergraduate studies in the
Innovation and Entrepreneurship Program at Duke. “By the time students finish,
they will be leaving with a practical set of skills, a network of fellow
entrepreneurs and a strong understanding of how to take those assets to create
their own venture, should they want to do so.”

One of the teachers of the course will be Shivnath Babu, associate professor
of computer science at Duke University, who also is a cofounder of a current
startup in Silicon Valley called Unravel Data Systems. The company is aimed at
analyzing Big Data and making the results and insights easily available to
businesses in real-time.

Babu’s research focuses on making data-intensive computing systems easier to
manage. His work includes a Self-tuning Analytics System (Starfish for short)
that performs timely and scalable analytical processing on large datasets.
With his current efforts to translate his research into a new venture, Babu
will bring startup experience and an understanding of the current climate in
Silicon Valley to the classroom.

The second teacher of the class is Salman Azhar, an entrepreneur in residence
and a visiting associate professor at Duke, as well as chief product officer
at iSKY, a growing customer experience management company. Azhar has more than
25 years in the industry and academia, during which he has led talented teams
in developing and launching state-of-the-art software systems. He co-founded
DecisionStreet, Swans International, SoftWeb, and over 30 other startups in
the areas of predictive computing, business intelligence, data analytics, and
decision support. His current and former clients include Honda, Toyota,
Lamborghini, Audi, Sony, SAP, HP, ADP, i2, Western Digital, Oracle, Agilent,
Outcome, and several startups.

With the vast wealth of knowledge and experience provided by the two teachers,
students at Duke are eagerly awaiting the first few weeks of their summer.

“A tremendous benefit of being a Duke student is the extensive network that
knows no national or global boundaries, and I believe that the new Duke in
Silicon Valley program is a synergy of these opportunities,” said Rajalekha
Manjakuppam Rajamahendiran, a master’s student in biomedical engineering who
has already signed up for the program. “The program aligns directly with my
interests in learning more about the non-technical aspects of product
development, while being immersed in an environment with a rich history and a
strong powerhouse of technological innovation.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

