

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Girls Sample STEM at Duke University

May 24, 2019 | By Ratna Swaminathan

Hands-on workshops and chats with role models drew more than 140 future female
scientists, engineers, technologists, and mathematicians to second annual
Girls STEM Day

If measured in terms of sheer excitement, the second annual Girls STEM Day at
Duke, hosted by Triangle Women in STEM (TriWiSTEM) in collaboration with Duke
University, was a runaway success.

Over 140 middle and high school girls from across North Carolina converged on
May 18 at the Fitzpatrick Center in Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering, where
they enthusiastically explored robotics and artificial intelligence,
biotechnology, and chemistry through hands-on workshops led by TriWiSTEM
mentors and volunteers representing 43 companies and institutions from across
the Triangle region. At the end of the day, students and parents were brought
together for a fun competitive game focused on financial literacy, “So You
Want To Be A Millionaire,” facilitated by volunteers from Fidelity, Credit
Suisse and Coastal Credit Union.

Workshops were developed to highlight the “fun factor” of STEM. The Robotics
and Artificial Intelligence workshop, for example, challenged participants to
build their own robots using Lego’s Mindstorm EV3 kits, animate them using the
free EV3 programmer app on laptops, and remotely steer their bots to perform
tasks and compete in games.

“It’s fun and cool to learn about robots—how they work and how to make them do
different tasks,” said Kennedy Rouse, an eighth-grader at Raleigh’s East
Millbrook Middle School, who lights up for all things electronic. Delia Rouse,
a Girl Scout troop leader and Kennedy’s mother, said that bringing her
daughter to events like Girls STEM Day is a hands-on way to develop her love
of science and technology. As an extra perk, Scouts can earn badges for their
work.

Triangle Women in STEM volunteers led aspiring geneticists to learn about
biotechnology and the scientific method in the DNA Biotech FUN-damentals
workshop, where participants isolated and extracted DNA from wheat germ and
grew cells. In the Science of Cosmetics workshop, participants explored the
science behind the glitz and glamor of the cosmetics industry. The young
future chemists mixed ingredients and chose flavors and colors to create their
own brand of lotion and lip balms, and then marketed the products to their
team members.

Women make up 47 percent of the overall workforce but only 28 percent of
scientists and engineers, and interest in STEM subjects seems to wane for
girls as they move from elementary to middle and high school. The organizers
of Girls STEM Day--themselves professional women working in STEM fields--are
determined to not just stop the trend, but to reverse it by sparking
enthusiasm with real-life applications of science, technology, engineering and
mathematics.

“We want to motivate the girls and create memories with the annual Girls STEM
Day,” said Nan Jokerst, associate dean of strategic initiatives for Duke
Engineering and co-lead for TriWiSTEM. “The participants will be able to see a
giant community that fosters a sense of belonging and is more than willing to
mentor them.”

In addition to young women, the event engaged more than 110 of their parents,
who attended panel discussions on raising confident girls (and supportive
boys), creating supportive environments, developing fluency in college
admissions processes, and choosing STEM majors and careers.

“Corporate America long ago recognized that diversity in the workplace is a
strategic advantage,” said parent attendee and software engineer Stephen
Bohlayer. “Yet we still see too few people from underrepresented groups in
software engineering and most STEM-related fields.” He said he is committed to
keeping both of his daughters engaged in STEM-related activities, and this
event for one appeared to be a hit. “I like science and want to learn more
about biology and DNA,” said Anabel Bohlayer, a seventh-grader at Franklin
Academy in Wake Forest who wants to be a marine biologist when she grows up.

From the event’s agenda, two strong messages emerged: that STEM is well within
the reach of girls, and that they are not alone in their pursuits.

“When girls are exposed to STEM, they see that as an opportunity,” concurred
volunteer Monika Gulledge, a public health analyst at RTI International. She
comes from a STEM-oriented family, and her biologist mother was her role
model. By volunteering, Gulledge hopes to pass the baton to a new generation
of STEM women.

Event lead organizer, Sondra Rivers-Kobler, retired Director of the Global
Markets Technology Division for Credit Suisse, sees Girls STEM Day as a way
engaging and inspiring the next generation of young women in STEM, as well as
a means of building a community that supports professional women in STEM
throughout the region. It is not just a “feel good” event for students, she
said, but a way to provide them with role models and hands-on STEM experiences
that could lead the students to pursuing advanced STEM education, and
lucrative and rewarding careers in the future.

A recent survey by the Pew Research Center showed that the median annual
income for STEM graduates at $76,000 is about $20,000 more than non-STEM
graduates. Moreover, STEM graduates see employment rates of nearly 98 percent.

“We want the girls to be aware that they will generally make more money as
STEM graduates than non-STEM graduates,” emphasized Jokerst.

The event was made possible through collaborative partners and sponsors that
included Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and Trinity College of the Arts
and Sciences, Girl Scouts NC Coastal Pines, Fidelity, Credit Suisse, Research
Triangle Nanotechnology Network (a partnership among Duke, UNC-Chapel Hill and
NC State), Delta Dental, Coastal Credit Union, Red Hat, IBM, Biogen, Mills
Auto Group and The Pearl Leadership Institute.

The event was presented by Triangle Women in STEM, an organization comprising
professional women from Triangle education, business, non-profit and
government organizations who work together to make the Triangle the
destination for women in STEM.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

