

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gong Receives NSF CAREER Award to Study How Brain Regions Connect

April 25, 2019

Competitive five-year grant will help Duke biomedical engineer Yiyang Gong
image and study neural activity at faster speeds

Yiyang Gong, an assistant professor in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke University, has been awarded a National Science Foundation
Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award. The competitive five-year,
$500,000 grant for outstanding young faculty will support Gong’s efforts to
develop faster methods to examine and record neural activity in animal models.

Gong’s research centers on understanding brain function using methods that
combine genetically encoded sensors, which can target specific neuron types or
specific neural pathways for recording or perturbation, and optical
microscopy, which can pinpoint individual neurons with high spatial and
temporal accuracy.

With the CAREER Award, Gong will use mesoscopic brain imaging to study groups
of neurons at once rather than individual cells. Although comparatively low-
resolution, mesoscopic imaging will allow the team to examine neuronal
activity over a few milliseconds, taking a frame every two to five
milliseconds rather than the 25-50 ms it takes with calcium imaging, the
current imaging standard. This method, Gong says, will enable his team to
better understand how different regions in the brain connect to each other.

“Ideally we would want to know what every neuron is doing on millisecond
timescales, but the technology isn’t feasible for that at the moment,” says
Gong. “Instead, we can look at individual neurons at slow timescales, or look
at what groups of neurons are doing together on fast timescales. The latter is
this proposal, where we’ll access a window within the spatial-versus temporal-
tradeoff that hasn’t been previously accessed with other technologies.”

To obtain these measurements, Gong and his team will use a set of protein
sensors that respond quickly to neural activity, and optical microscopes
capable of recording the activity. This rapid imaging technique should help
researchers understand the neural connections in an animal model brain,
similar to how a physician can use an MRI to examine the human brain, Gong
says.

“Although the MRI works on slower timescales, it’s helpful because researchers
can see if two brain regions are always active together, and subsequently
conclude that they’re connected and work together,” he says. “In our proposal
we’re going to examine the entire brain of a zebrafish so we can try to detail
what blocks of the brain are connected and function together, but on much
faster timescales.

“Being recognized with the CAREER Award is very helpful for initiating a new
path in research,” he adds. “The proposed research to image neural activity at
mesoscopic scales will provide information that bridges what the scientific
community understand at the cellular level of the brain and at very broad
levels of the brain.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

