

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 'Grad School Boot Camp' Attracts a Diverse Crowd

October 31, 2016

New Pratt-wide program teaches prospective graduate students about
applications, fellowships and opportunities at Duke

This fall, students, staff and faculty at Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering
banded together to help undergraduates from all over the country take the next
step in their careers.

On October 21, Duke Engineering hosted nearly 40 students at a “Graduate
School Boot Camp” designed to help prospective students learn more about the
grad-school admissions process, how to apply for fellowships, and summer
research, training grant and graduate study opportunities here at Duke.
Focused on encouraging more women and underrepresented students to consider
advanced studies in engineering, the new school-wide program was inspired by
the success of similar workshops held by the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering (ECE) in spring 2015 and 2016.

> “The day really helped answer a lot of the questions I had about graduate
> school. I’m currently trying to decide between going into graduate school
> and industry, and listening to the faculty talk about what their daily
> routines look like and how they got to where they are was very helpful.”
>
> –Blessing Tayisepi, 2016 boot camp participant

“Our goal was to take the great framework already in place from the ECE
Department, add some programming and scale it up to allow even more students
to participate,” said Johnna Frierson, director of the Office of Diversity and
Inclusion in Engineering, who coordinated the program along with Claudia
Gunsch, associate professor of civil & environmental engineering, and Amy
Kostrewa, PhD program coordinator in ECE. “We wanted to give undergraduate
students who were seriously thinking about graduate school an opportunity to
learn how to navigate applications and what earning a master’s or doctorate
degree is really all about.”

The hook? Spend a day at Duke learning what graduate school admission officers
are looking for in an application, how to secure national fellowships and what
Duke’s engineering school has to offer, all expenses paid.

“We were looking for students who had a passion for engineering,” said
Frierson, “as well as faculty recommendations to show that the candidate was
seriously considering graduate school and could thrive there.”

After some stiff competition for invitations, 37 students attended the day-
long program from all over the country. The program consisted of overviews of
how to best position yourself for graduate school, the various engineering
departments at Duke, panels of graduate students to answer questions about
their various activities and the application process for several national
fellowships. After an intense day, the activities wrapped up with campus
tours, a Pratt Engineering Graduate Student Council social and dinner at The
Pit in downtown Durham.

“The program offered a great blend of informational sessions and networking
with Pratt faculty and graduate students,” said Gunsch. “I think that all the
participants left with a wealth of strategies that will help them craft
stellar applications and ultimately become well-adjusted graduate students.”

From the participants’ perspective, it sounds like the boot camp was a hit.

“The day really helped answer a lot of the questions I had about graduate
school, “said Blessing Tayisepi, an undergraduate originally from Zimbabwe who
is now studying at Michigan State University. “I’m currently trying to decide
between going into graduate school and industry. Listening to the faculty talk
about what their daily routines look like and how they got to where they are
was very helpful.”

“I know I want to get into the biomedical field to improve people’s lives and
maybe save some lives along the way,” said Braden Li, a materials science and
engineering student at the University of Florida. “I saw that Duke combines
their mechanical engineering and materials science programs and is really
strong in the mechanical side of biomedical applications. I wanted to come
here and learn more about the program. I’d say my biggest takeaway has been
really getting to know the people here—how they function, what makes them
tick, and why they want to be here.”

When asked if they’re considering applying to Duke for graduate school, there
seemed to be no question.

“Yeah, that’s for sure,” said Tayisepi.

“I think after this, yeah, for sure,” echoed Li.

_Interested in attending a future Duke Engineering Graduate School Bootcamp?
Contact_ _Johnna Frierson_ _to learn more._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

