

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Harnessing Data for Materials Through Collaboration

September 27, 2022 | By Shana McAlexander

Joint NRT Symposium Chicago 2022 saw aiM trainees and project leaders combine
for a three-university collaborative event

Responding to the NSF Big Idea, Harnessing the Data Revolution (HDR), the
Harnessing Data for Materials Symposium 2022 brought together over 80
scientists and engineers, including graduate students, faculty and staff,
evaluators, and industry and national lab partners to share knowledge and
develop new research collaborations at the intersection of machine learning
and materials science.

During the collaborative two-day event on August 29-30, the symposium
participants engaged in numerous interactive sessions. Trainees shared their
ongoing research projects during roundtable presentations and three-minute
lightning talks. A panel of representatives from industry and national labs
answered student questions about the state of the workforce and practices that
would help them pursue careers and internships. In a culminating session on
Team Science, seven cross-institutional, interdisciplinary student teams drew
from their complementary interests and expertise to rapidly develop research
project ideas and present their proposals to the full group. All symposium
participants were able to make new connections and better understand how their
research efforts align with their peers and the larger goals of the science
and engineering community.

“Sharing research and bouncing ideas off of people from other institutions was
incredibly enriching,” said Winston Lindqwister, a CEE PhD student at Duke.
“It gave me a great low-stress opportunity to practice presenting my ideas!”

“This was a powerful and dynamic workshop, with ample time for all attendees
to connect formally and informally,” added Cate Brinson, PI and aiM director,
as well as chair and professor of MEMS at Duke. “New nascent research
collaborations were forged and several concrete follow-on projects are being
actively pursued to provide even greater discoveries at the intersection of AI
and materials.”

> “Sharing research and bouncing ideas off of people from other institutions
> was incredibly enriching. It gave me a great low-stress opportunity to
> practice presenting my ideas!”
>
> winston lindqwister

This event is one of many professional development experiences for graduate
students participating in Duke University’s five-year, National Science
Foundation Research Traineeship program to develop expertise in using AI for
materials science research. The aiM (AI for Understanding and Designing
Materials) Program fulfills a vital workforce gap by training the next
generation in the new convergent field of materials and computer science
research.

“After two years of remote conferences, we couldn’t anticipate how excited
everyone would be to engage in-person!” said Shana McAlexander, aiM associate
director. “The three university programs really complement each other.”

The aiM Program is seeking PhD students to join the 2023 cohort to engage in
interdisciplinary work using scientific machine learning to accelerate
understanding and discover new materials that address global challenges across
many sectors, including the energy sector (e.g., battery technology),
transportation (e.g., lighter weight aerospace materials), health care (e.g.,
drug delivery devices, soft-tissue imaging, and implant materials), and many
more areas. Current and prospective Duke PhD students in engineering, physical
sciences, computer science and related departments are eligible to apply. The
program has a masters and doctoral certificate in development.

To learn more about aiM, check out the program website https://aim-
nrt.pratt.duke.edu/ or contact Shana McAlexander, aiM Associate Director at
shana.mcalexander@duke.edu.

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation under grant
DGE-2022040.

## Related News

September 21, 2020

### Filling an AI and Materials Science Training Gap

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

