

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Of Heartbeats, Bones and Brushstrokes

August 1, 2016 | By Robin A. Smith

Training computers to find patterns in massive datasets from medicine to art
history

_Originally posted onDuke Today_

It takes a well-trained eye to spot an irregular heartbeat in the peaks and
valleys of an electrocardiogram. The same goes for identifying an extinct ape
from a single fossilized tooth, or telling an original van Gogh from a fake.

But in recent years, applied mathematician Ingrid Daubechies has been training
computers to churn through ECG tracings, high-resolution scans of fossils,
paintings and other complex digital data and work things out automatically.

"The large volumes of data that are being generated left and right definitely
present a serious challenge," said Daubechies, professor of mathematics and
electrical and computer engineering, who came to Duke in 2011.

We're at a point where we can no longer keep up with the data deluge, some
researchers argue, and new approaches to data mining are needed.

Now, with support from a five-year, $1.5 million award from the Simons
Foundation, a private foundation based in New York, Daubechies is forging
connections between math and engineering to build machine learning tools that
do just that.

One of the techniques she has been developing involves new ways to compare 3-D
shapes. For the past seven years, Daubechies has been working with fossil
experts to analyze three-dimensional images of bones and teeth.

By comparing the bumpy surfaces of molars, knucklebones and other skeleton
parts, her collaborators hope to figure out whether the extinct animals they
study were climbers or leapers, or whether they ate insects or plants.

But even with 3-D scanning and computer graphics software, a trained
specialist has to show the computer the key landmarks on the bone surface. The
process is time-consuming and subjective.

Daubechies has been attacking the problem using a branch of computer science
called computational geometry, building algorithms that make it possible to
tackle large datasets more quickly and objectively.

She soon realized the same machine learning approach would be useful for other
problems. In one project, Daubechies and her then graduate student Hau-tieng
Wu proposed a new method to look for patterns in electrocardiograms. The
results give doctors a second opinion to help them decide when ICU patients
are ready to get off ventilators and breathe on their own.

Next, she hopes to turn computers loose on bird song recordings, using similar
techniques to help biologists identify subtle differences between individual
birds or species.

Daubechies has a long history of defying disciplinary boundaries. Born in a
small coal mining town in Belgium, she got her start in research doing
physics, not math.

It was after earning a bachelor’s degree in theoretical physics and then a
Ph.D. in quantum mechanics, both from the Free University of Brussels, that
she got involved in applications of math beyond physics. She was particularly
interested in using a mathematical technique called the Fourier
transformation, which breaks down complicated signals that vary in time or
space, such as sound waves or images, into simpler building blocks.

After earning her doctorate in 1980, she became one of the world’s leading
authorities on wavelet theory, a refinement of the Fourier technique
frequently used to shrink digital photos and movies so that they take up fewer
kilobytes without noticeably losing detail.

Digital images are composed of millions of tiny colored dots, or pixels,
arranged on a grid. Each pixel is a single color or grey value represented by
numbers. This is where math comes in. Compression with Daubechies’ wavelets
computes averages and differences for the numbers in each row and column to
construct a new grid that is more compact.

In the mid-1990s, her work on wavelets was adopted by the FBI to squeeze down
their hundreds of millions of fingerprints to make them easier to transmit and
store.

Any time you go to a movie theater, or watch live sports on ESPN, each frame
has been compressed using Daubechies’ wavelet-based method -- the latter use
she discovered while watching a soccer game on TV with her husband. “It was
the artifacts in the grass,” she said.

Daubechies has also used wavelets to help geologists analyze the wiggly lines
on seismograms from huge earthquakes and reconstruct what lies below the
Earth’s crust, and to help neuroscientists read MRI images of brain activity.

In 2007, researchers affiliated with the Van Gogh and Kröller-Müller Museums
in The Netherlands challenged Daubechies and other scholars to use their image
processing techniques to analyze more than 100 high-resolution scans of
paintings, mostly by Vincent van Gogh.

Using wavelets and machine learning to identify subtle differences in brush
strokes, Daubechies and her team were able to distinguish copies or forgeries
from true van Goghs.

Thus began an ongoing collaboration between mathematicians, computer
scientists, museum curators and art historians. Their algorithms are now being
used to compare artists’ styles, pinpoint when something was painted, even
mathematically restore artwork that has cracked, faded, or been reduced to
rubble by wartime bombing -- all without laying a finger on the actual art.

Daubechies held positions at Bell Laboratories, the University of Michigan,
Rutgers University and Princeton University before joining the Duke faculty in
2011.

As a Simons Foundation Math+X Investigator, she will receive $300,000 per
year, with the possibility of a five-year renewal, to expand her collaborative
research between math and electrical engineering. The Simons Foundation
considered nominations from across the United States and Canada for this
award.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

