

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Hsu Wins NSF CAREER Award to Develop Energy-Saving Wearable Device

January 25, 2022 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Competitive five-year grant will help Po-Chun Hsu develop new wearable
technology to manage heat around the human body without using additional power
supply

Po-Chun Hsu, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke University, has been awarded a prestigious National Science
Foundation Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award. The award supports
outstanding early-career faculty in building a foundation for a lifelong
research program. For the next five years, the $500,000 award will support
Hsu’s innovative work developing a wearable device that manages heat around
the human body without requiring an active power supply to maintain the
heating/cooling mode.

Hsu’s goal is to address the human need for thermal homeostasis—or maintenance
of core body temperature within a specific range, as required by all warm-
blooded mammals—while reducing the enormous amount of energy consumption and
carbon emissions associated with indoor temperature control.

According to the U.S. Department of Energy and other sources, building heating
and cooling management accounts for an estimated 15% of global energy
consumption and approximately 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Hsu is
passionate about reducing these levels of energy consumption and their
environmental effects.

“My goal is to solve the long-standing trade-off between power consumption and
functionality of wearable thermoregulation devices by providing a new approach
of controlling heat transfer, rather than actively supplying power, which will
significantly reduce energy consumption,” said Hsu.

His approach for the device supported by this award involves a combination of
materials science, thermal science, sustainability and photonic engineering.
The design uses a metamaterial—an engineered composite that is structured to
control and manipulate light waves—to radiate heat. By pairing the
metamaterial with a polymer that electrochemically changes its property, Hsu
will tune the device to manage the heat that naturally radiates from the human
body in the mid-infrared wavelength range, thereby optimally regulating the
body’s heat balance. Mid-infrared wavelengths are between the visible light
spectrum and microwaves.

“The electrochemical tuning is non-volatile and consumes zero power to
maintain the heating/cooling mode, which is a remarkable advantage for long-
term daily usage,” said Hsu.

To provide stretchability, breathability and morphing of the dynamic
metasurface in 3D for future large-scale production, Hsu will employ kirigami
cuts, which are akin to origami but combined with cutting that render 3D
results without adhesive.

Hsu sees potential in this device for both spurring the cross-disciplinary
field of photonic engineering, sustainable energy science and providing
better-personalized thermoregulation to prevent temperature-related diseases,
such as heart attack, stroke, heat illness, colds, and flu.

Hsu already has a strong track record of achievements to address energy
consumption for heating and cooling, publishing extensively about his
findings. He developed a device using customized nanomaterials with specific
properties that are able to change between heating and cooling modes to manage
solar energy for both radiative heating and cooling of a building.

His most recent work in textiles uses physics rather than electronics to open
vents in a hybrid nylon/silver nanomaterial to let heat escape when a person
begins to sweat, then reclose to retain heat once they are dry.

He also has designed comfortable textiles for wearables with specific
properties to lower wearers’ thermal radiation so that they can tolerate
higher air-conditioning settings. His approach is a departure from existing
textiles, which wick moisture away from the body as their cooling method.
Listen to him describe his materials science work at the nanoscale on “The
World’s Coolest T-Shirt” episode of Duke Engineering’s Rate of Change podcast
and on this episode of Science podcast.

Hsu joined Duke’s Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science in 2019. He earned a PhD in materials science at Stanford University
in 2016.

## Related News

December 16, 2021

### Innovative Textile Vents to Release Heat When You Sweat

October 28, 2021

### Smart Material Switches Between Heating and Cooling in Minutes

December 02, 2020

### Nanomaterials Enable Passive Dual-Mode Heating and Cooling Device

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

