

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Huang Wins Analytical Chemistry 2017 Young Innovator Award

July 24, 2017

Award recognizes contributions demonstrating exceptional technical advancement
and innovation in the field of micro- or nanofluidics

Tony Jun Huang, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at
Duke University, has been named the recipient of the Analytical Chemistry 2017
Young Innovator Award. The award, sponsored by Analytical Chemistry and the
Chemical and Biological Microsystems Society, recognizes the contributions of
an individual who has demonstrated exceptional technical advancement and
innovation in the field of micro- or nanofluidics in his or her early career.

A leader in the fields of microfluidics, acoustofluidics and lab-on-a-chip
technologies, Huang explores ways of using sound waves to precisely manipulate
and detect fluids and particles—such as cells, DNAs, RNAs and proteins—inside
fluids. His goal is to develop these technologies into new diagnoses and
treatments for various diseases.

Huang received his PhD degree in mechanical and aerospace engineering from the
University of California, Los Angeles in 2005 before becoming a professor and
the Huck Distinguished Chair in Bioengineering Science and Mechanics at the
Pennsylvania State University. He has authored/co-authored over 180 peer-
reviewed journal publications in these fields, and his journal articles have
been cited more than 10,000 times, as documented at Google Scholar (h-index:
55). He also has 16 patents and invention disclosures.

Huang’s research has gained international recognition through numerous
prestigious awards and honors including the 2010 National Institutes of Health
Director’s New Innovator Award, the 2011 Penn State Engineering Alumni Society
Outstanding Research Award, the 2011 JALA Top Ten Breakthroughs of the Year
Award, the 2012 Outstanding Young Manufacturing Engineer Award from Society
for Manufacturing Engineering, the 2013 Faculty Scholar Medal from The
Pennsylvania State University, the 2013 American Asthma Foundation Scholar
Award, and the 2014 IEEE Sensors Council Technical Achievement Award. He has
also been distinguished by being elected as a fellow of the following five
professional societies: the American Institute for Medical and Biological
Engineering, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the Institute of Physics, and the Royal
Society of Chemistry.

The Analytical Chemistry 2017 Young Innovator Award will be presented to Dr.
Tony Jun Huang at μTAS (MicroTAS) 2017 in Savannah, Georgia, October 22-26
2017.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

