

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Improving Energy Storage With a Cue From Nature

August 27, 2015

_Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering, recently
had a publication selected as the Editor’s Choice in the Journal of Applied
Physics. Titled “Morphing tree structures for latent thermal energy storage,”
the paper was also the journal’s top downloaded article for the month._

_The following story about the research was published onEurekAlert by the
American Institute of Physics._

Materials melt faster when the lines of heat spread through the cold material
like the branches of a tree -- and the melting rate can be steadily increased
by allowing the tree architecture to freely evolve over time, researchers have
discovered. The finding could help improve phase change energy storage
systems, which store heat by melting materials like wax or salt, and could
play an important role in ensuring a smooth flow of energy from renewable
sources like the wind and sun. The researchers report the results in the
_Journal of Applied Physics_ , from AIP Publishing.

Branching patterns, like the ones the researchers investigated in melting
materials, pop up repeatedly in nature, from treetop canopies to spreading
river deltas. Similar patterns emerge across seemingly distinct systems
because the same basic physical law is driving the evolutionary design, said
Adrian Bejan, a professor at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina.

In 1996, Bejan identified the physics behind these branching natural designs
with a new principle he called the "Constructal Law," which states that for
flow systems -- like rivers or trees -- to survive, they must evolve over time
to provide easier and easier access to the currents that flow through them. In
practice this means that a river will shift course as it spreads into the sea
to avoid obstructions caused by settling sediment, and a plant will reorient
its branches in a constant effort to facilitate nutrient and water flow.

In the following two decades, Bejan and his colleagues have shown how the
evolution of various natural and man-made designs, from snowflakes to
airplanes, is explained by the Constructal Law.

"There is organization happening naturally all around us, and the Constructal
Law is the physics principle that underpins it," said Bejan. "What's left is
to be wise and to rely on the principle to fast-forward the design of
technology."

In the new paper Bejan, along with fellow researchers from Duke University and
the UniversitÃ© de Toulouse in France, have applied the law to increase the
performance of the technology of phase change energy storage.

Phase change energy storage systems take advantage of the fact that materials
can store or release large amounts of thermal energy at a steady temperature
when they undergo a phase change like melting or freezing. They can be used in
buildings to soak up heat during the day and release it again at night, in
spacecraft to manage heat flow, and in solar power installations to store
excess energy.

"The traditional architecture is to embed a heating and cooling coil in the
phase change material, but our research shows that what happens naturally is
also the best way to spread the heat into the volume: it is a dendritic
structure, like a hand with many fingers," Bejan said. The researchers
discovered the overall melting rate increased by allowing the length, number
and branching angle of the "fingers" to evolve over time.

A faster melting rate is important because it means that thermal energy is
efficiently transferred to the finite amount of phase change material in the
system. Maximizing the heat transfer to the phase change material is
especially important if the system is used to store energy in a vehicle where
any excess weight could slow it down, Bejan added.

In general, the more complex the branching structures, the faster the melting
process, but there is a law of diminishing returns. "Imagine building a
branching structure, with billions of tiny, tiny fingers touching at the tips.
You'd say forget it!" Bejan said. In the end, a human designer will choose to
interrupt the sequence of improvements at a certain point because of the costs
and time that come with added complexity.

The Constructal Law shows that natural systems are constantly evolving.
Technology will follow the same path, Bejan said. "You can imagine that the
phase change technology of the day would have a fixed tree-shaped
architecture, but it would be overtaken in the following years by even better
architecture," Bejan said.

###

The article, "Morphing tree structures for latent thermal energy storage," is
authored by S. Ziaei, S. Lorente and A. Bejan. It will be published in the
_Journal of Applied Physics_ on June 9, 2015 (DOI: 10.1063/1.4921442). After
that date, it can be accessed at:
https://aip.scitation.org/doi/full/10.1063/1.4921442

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

