

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Izatt Named 2021 Edwin H. Land Medal Recipient

April 27, 2021

The Optical Society and Society for Imaging Science and Technology honor
leader in biomedical imaging

View the original announcement on the Optical Society's website.

The Optical Society (OSA) and the Society for Imaging Science and Technology
(IS&T) named Joseph Izatt, the Michael Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of
Engineering in the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering at Duke
University, the 2021 Edwin H. Land Medal winner. Izatt is recognized for
foundational contributions to the invention, development, and
commercialization of optical coherence-based technologies for in vivo
biomedical imaging, and for the education and mentoring of distinguished
scientists and engineers.

"Joseph Izatt is a true leader in optical coherence-based imaging research
whose entrepreneurial spirit and mentorship is emblematic of the Edwin Land
Medal,” said 2021 OSA President Connie Chang-Hasnain, Whinnery Chair Professor
Emerita of EECS at University of California, Berkeley, USA. “His trailblazing
accomplishments have contributed to the development of technologies that will
benefit society indefinitely.”

"The impact that Joseph Izatt has had on advancing optical coherence-based
imaging to positively impact medical outcomes, especially in children, truly
embodies the public spirit of Edwin Land,” said IS&T President Scott Silence,
Program Manager/Director, Ribbon Ceramics at Corning Incorporated, USA. “His
work also illustrates the unique value of deep academic and industrial
connections, in keeping with the high standards of the Land Medal and with the
mission of IS&T."

Izatt is a pioneer in biomedical imaging, and has found success both as an
entrepreneur and as a teacher. With a joint appointment in biomedical
engineering and ophthalmology, Izatt is considered one of the leading experts
in OCT, a medical imaging technique that allows researchers to peer beneath
the surface of living tissues to diagnose and treat diseases. Although there
are numerous uses of the technology, it is primarily used by eye doctors to
detect and treat vision problems. Izatt has published over 200 technical
papers and more than 350 contributed conference presentations, delivered 135
invited lectures and presentations, and holds over 75 US patents. He is a
Fellow of OSA, the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering,
the National Academy of Inventors and SPIE.

View the full release on the Optical Society's site here.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

