

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tiny Jumping Genes Fingered as Culprit in Rise of Antibiotic Resistance

April 5, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Activity levels of transposons provide the handle needed for selection to
spread antibiotic resistance from wild microbes to human pathogens

Biomedical engineers at Duke University believe they have discovered the
physical mechanism that causes high doses of antibiotics to promote the spread
of antibiotic resistance between bacteria.

The culprit, they say, is an overabundance of “jumping genes,” called
transposons, that carry the genetic instructions for resistance from the
cell’s source code to plasmids that shuttle between cells.

The results appeared online March 28 in the journal Nature Ecology &
Evolution.

“There’s a lot of evidence that suggests human pathogens likely pick up
antibiotic resistance from other species living in the natural environment,”
said Lingchong You, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “Intuitively,
it makes sense that high levels of antibiotics in these environments are
facilitating the jumping of resistance genes from chromosomes to plasmids so
that they can spread, but the underlying mechanism never been directly tested.
That’s where our work comes in.”

It’s no secret that the rise in antibiotic resistance in human pathogens has
coincided with the rise in the use of antibiotics in large-scale industrial
endeavors like farming and manufacturing. While the genes that provide
resistance appear to be relatively new to these pathogens, some date back
millions of years in bacteria living in certain wild ecosystems. Coupled with
experiments that show high levels of antibiotics promote the spread of
resistance both within and between bacterial species, it’s easy to draw the
conclusion that human pathogens have acquired these resistance genes from the
environment due to its increasing ambient levels of antibiotics.

While the cause and effect seems clear, research has never firmly established
the underlying mechanisms, You said. Scientists know that small, free-floating
bundles of DNA called plasmids carry resistance genes between cells. You’s own
research, however, has shown that the presence of antibiotics does not
increase the rate at which plasmids carry out these gene swaps. What then, the
researchers asked, is the fundamental force driving this natural selection?

In the new paper, You and his postdoc Yi Yao show that this mysterious
mechanism could be the antibiotic-mediated selection on “jumping genes,”
called transposons, that carry the resistance genes from the cell’s
chromosomes to the plasmids.

> “Intuitively, it makes sense that high levels of antibiotics in these
> environments are facilitating the jumping of resistance genes from
> chromosomes to plasmids so that they can spread, but the underlying
> mechanism never been directly tested. That’s where our work comes in.”
>
> lingchong you

“Yi’s experiments were designed to test this possible pathway that explains
how different pathogens actually get resistance from environmental species,”
You said. “And he demonstrated that not only is this possible, it’s also very
likely.”

Transposons are tiny pieces of DNA that constantly jump around the inside of a
cell. They can jump from place to place within a cell’s central genetic
database, and they can jump from the database of the DNA to the larger
plasmids capable of traveling between cells, or vice versa. This can lead to
chromosomes or plasmids that contain many copies of the same genetic
blueprints.

In a series of experiments, Yao exposed cells resistant to various types of
antibiotics to a range of concentrations of that antibiotic. As the
concentration increased, invariably there came a point at which the cells
carrying plasmids with more copies of the resistance genes began outcompeting
their peers.

“All the curves looked almost exactly the same,” You said. “It’s actually
surprising just how robust the trend is.”

The researchers say that the copy number of transposons on the plasmids
affects how many antibiotic resistance proteins the cell is producing. That
production comes at an energy cost, and it’s not until the amount of
antibiotics reaches a certain level that the extra energy expended is a
valuable trait to carry.

It is not clear, however, if the higher levels of antibiotics are directly
causing the resistance transposons within these cells to become more active.
Rather, it demonstrates that if the transposon jumping is already happening,
antibiotic selection would always enrich the population containing resistance
genes that have jumped to plasmids.

The levels of antibiotics required to begin driving this selection, the
researchers say, varies greatly between species and the specific drugs in
question. But this range is not uncommon in today’s natural environments,
potentially providing the pressure needed for human pathogens to pick up the
resistance genes with more regularity.

“We’re now working to prove that this dynamic is actively occurring in real
environments like hospitals and not just in a Petri dish,” You said. “We also
want to see if we can use this knowledge to selectively dial in the flow of
genes to optimize bacteria engineered for industrial uses.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01A1125604,
R01GM110494, R01EB029466), the National Science Foundation (MCB-1937259) and
the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.

CITATION: “Intra- And Interpopulation Transposition Of Mobile Genetic Elements
Driven By Antibiotic Selection,” Yi Yao, Rohan Maddamsetti, Andrea Weiss,
Yuanchi Ha, Teng Wang, Shangying Wang and Lingchong You. Nature Ecology &
Evolution, March 28, 2022. DOI: 10.1038/s41559-022-01705-2

## Related News

April 11, 2016

### Antibiotics Don't Promote Swapping of Resistance Genes

April 23, 2015

### Finding New Life for First-Line Antibiotics

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

