

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Key to Sustainability: Flows of Water and Electricity

September 23, 2015

Adrian Bejan presented one of the keynote lectures at the annual conference of
the Academy of Europe

Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Duke
University, presented one of the keynote lectures at the annual conference of
the Academy of Europe on Wednesday, September 9, 2015. Titled “The Human &
Machine Species: Life and Evolution as Physics,” the lecture focused on the
topic of a paper Bejan published Tuesday, September 22, 2015, in the European
Review—sustainability as seen by the constructal law.

In 1996, Bejan penned the Constructal Law that postulates that movement—or
“flow”— systems such as trees, rivers or air currents evolve into
configurations that provide easier and easier access to flows. Now
internationally recognized as the physics law of organization and evolution,
the constructal law is increasingly finding applications in improving design
and maximizing efficiency of manmade systems.

In terms of sustainability, Bejan argues that physics reveals that the most
important of these flows is water and electricity.

“There is plenty of water in a swamp and plenty of solar energy falling on the
Sahara,” said Bejan. “But neither is precious because neither is flowing
through the space inhabited by human life.”

To achieve a sustainable “flowing” future, Bejan argues that the
underdeveloped areas and groups of the world must be better connected to flows
of water and electricity. But that doesn’t mean they need independent access
to said resources.

These flows won’t happen unless they are attached to the trunks and big
branches of the global economy—so that they become branches that are part of
the same tree, instead of entirely separate systems. This, he argues,
indicates that a socioeconomic hierarchy isn’t only unavoidable, it is
necessary.

“There is a fallacy where people think that equality is the recipe for
advancement and sustainability,” said Bejan. “Hierarchy is natural and
beneficial to all, and it is often falsely confused with inequality.”

However, Bejan also warns that the gap between the developed and
underdeveloped needs to be controlled. And the best way to do this is to
connect the have-nots of the world with flowing electricity and water. The end
result is a global design that is efficient, stable and beneficial to all its
parts.

In other words, a design that is sustainable.

Bejan’s lecture took place at 9:00 AM on Wednesday, September 9, at the 27th
annual conference of the European Academy held in Darmstadt, Germany. His
paper, “Sustainability: The Water and Energy Problem, and the Natural Design
Solution,” appears in the European Review.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

