

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Law of Physics Helps Explain Airplane Evolution

July 22, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Constructal Law explains progression of passenger jets, sets guidelines for
future aircraft

Researchers believe they now know why the supersonic trans-Atlantic Concorde
aircraft went the way of the dodo—it hit an evolutionary cul-de-sac.

In a new study, Adrian Bejan, professor of mechanical engineering and
materials science at Duke University, shows that a law of physics he penned
more than two decades ago helps explain the evolution of passenger airplanes
from the small, propeller-driven DC-3s of yore to today’s behemoth Boeing
787s. The analysis also provides insights into how aerospace companies can
develop successful future designs.

The Concorde, alas, was too far from the curve of these good designs, Bejan
says. The paper appears online July 22, in the Journal of Applied Physics.

“The evolution of Earth’s species occurred on a timescale far too large for
humans to witness,” said Bejan. “But the evolution of our use of technology
and airplanes to transport people and goods has taken place in little more
than a single lifetime, making it visible to those who look. Evolution is a
universal phenomenon encompassing technology, river basins and animal design
alike, and it is rooted in physics as the constructal law.”

The constructal law was developed by Bejan in 1996 and states that for a
system to survive, it must evolve to increase its access to flow. For example,
the human vascular system has evolved to provide blood access to flow through
a network of a few large arteries and many small capillaries. River systems,
tree branches and modern highway and road networks show the same forces at
work, he says.

In the case of commercial aircraft, designs have evolved to allow more people
and goods to flow across the face of the Earth. Constructal law has also
dictated the main design features needed for aircraft to succeed; the engine
mass has remained proportional to the body size, the wing size has been tied
to the fuselage length, and the fuel load has grown in step with the total
weight.

“The same design features can be seen in any large land animal,” said Bejan.
“Larger animals have longer lifespans and travel farther distances, just as
passenger airplanes have been designed to do. For example, the ratio of the
engine to aircraft size is analogous to the ratio of a large animal’s total
body size to its heart, lungs and muscles.”

To apply his theories to airplane design, Bejan teamed up with Jordan Charles,
a researcher and development engineer, and Sylvie Lorente, a professor of
civil engineering at the University of Toulouse, to mine the historical
databases of successful commercial aircraft. As they plotted thousands of
statistics including year of introduction, size, cruising speed, engine
weight, fuel weight, range, wingspan and fuselage length, many patterns began
to emerge.

But two in particular stood out.

In one chart, a clear curve tracks the increasing size of commercial airplanes
through nearly a century of aviation. As time moves on, new commercial
airliners come in all sizes but the biggest are joined by even bigger models.
In another chart, the line that best tracks the relationship of body mass to
airplane speeds is nearly identical to mass and speed statistics from various
mammals, lizards, birds, insects and more. Evolutionary constraints found in
nature, in other words, can be seen at work in the airline industry.

There was, however, one outlier on the chart—the Concorde.

“The Concorde was too far off from the ratios that evolution has produced in
passenger jets,” explained Bejan, who points out that the doomed aircraft had
limited passenger capacity, a low mass-to-velocity ratio, an off-the-charts
fuselage-to-wingspan ratio, massive engines and poor fuel economy. “It would
have had to adhere to the constructal design rules to succeed.”

Bejan said this analysis shows that the aviation industry has done well with
its designs over the decades, and that the trends dominating the industry are
indeed the most efficient. They also reveal the general design parameters that
future passenger aircraft should follow to succeed economically.

“This study gives the rough sketch of what airplane designs will put you in
the game,” said Bejan. “For design companies, it is money in the bank.”

Jose Camberos, research aerospace engineer and lead of design space
exploration at the Multidisciplinary Science & Technology Center of the Air
Force Research Laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio,
said that the work will hopefully give the field better insight into where the
design of airplanes is going.

“There is definitely an analogy to be understood and articulated to explain
why engines and airplanes are sized the way they currently are and how that
has evolved,” said Camberos, who was not involved with this study. “By looking
at the development of aircraft in a larger context in these terms, it may be
possible to gain insights into how best to achieve what nature has been able
to accomplish already.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation.

# # #

CITATION: "The Evolution of Airplanes," A. Bejan, J.D. Charles, S. Lorente.
Journal of Applied Physics, July 22, 2014. DOI: 10.1063/1.4886855

A free copy of the paper is available for download via DukeSpace.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

