

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Light Painting Presents a New Route for Expression

October 19, 2022

A photography workshop at Duke Engineering showed the community how to combine
quirky light sources and long exposures to achieve otherworldly effects

August Burns vividly remembers the first light painting she ever made, over
her parents’ house, on a night with a full moon.

“I drew a big heart over it, with a flashlight, because that’s where my heart
is,” said Burns.

Burns was a photographer before she was a light painter. She followed many
photo-related accounts on social media, and an algorithm pushed the work of a
light painter named Jess Cruger onto one of her feeds. Cruger manages the lab
of biomedical engineering faculty member Marc Sommer and Burns is the business
manager of the Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics (FIP). Burns reached out to
her colleague and asked if she would consider showing her some light painting
techniques.

Cruger was happy to share what she knew and Burns was immediately hooked. She
started looking for other light painters in the region and was delighted to
find a whole thriving community.

Last week, she brought that community to Duke Engineering to teach a light
painting workshop, sponsored by FIP and Art@DukeEngineering, that was free to
the public. Attendees brought their Canons or Nikons if they had them, and
their smartphones, preloaded with a light painting app, if they didn’t. When
they arrived, each photographer got to choose a light-up party favor, like
strobing sunglasses or a blinking hair extension, before heading into the
darkened auditorium where the light painters demonstrated a host of artistic
techniques.

All the light painters—Jess Cruger, Laura DelPrato, Johnny Dickerson, Jason
Page, Jason Rinehart and John Shockey— volunteered their time to teach the
group, said Burns.

Cruger and DelPrato taught a technique called “Inside the Inside,” where
strategic use of the camera lens cap creates nested negative figures, haloed
in light.

Even Burns learned a little something new: Johnny Dickerson showed the group
how to rotate the camera during a long exposure to create a kaleidoscopic
effect.

One of the students in attendance already reached out to Burns to gauge
interest in starting a new light painting group at Duke (interested people
should email Burns for more information, she said), and feedback about the
event was positive across the board

“One of the post-event surveys just said, ‘SO MUCH FUN,’ all in caps,” said
Burns. “And it’s fun for the light painters, too, to hear the first gasps as
people see the images and realize the beauty that light painters can achieve.”

See August Burns's work in the Zero Gallery

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

