

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Little Help From Civilians

May 30, 2019

Duke's new interdisciplinary Hacking for Defense class invites students and
alumni to work on problems faced by the military

_FromDuke Magazine by Scott Huler_

Outfitted in someone else’s camouflage protective vests and helmets, preparing
to walk the perimeter fence of a concrete motor-pool containment of the Third
Special Forces Group at Fort Bragg, a half-dozen Duke students give
considerable thought to what might happen on their circuit. They’re on a
simulation exercise helping the Special Forces figure out how to best get
medical care and information to units as they fight, far from support. Before
heading out on their patrol, they discuss things like whether to break into
two units that would go in opposite directions and pass each other in the
middle, and they give a lot of thought to what they’ll do if they encounter
enemy fire. Ultimately, they head out as a single group.

After they go, Sergeant-Major Dave Hubler, the battalion commander, explains
why a bunch of Duke students—and alumni—are flinging themselves into
complicated problems at the very edge of the farthest reach of military
fighting forces. They’re part of “Hacking for Defense (H4D),” a demanding,
interdisciplinary course that connects students from all over the university
with military groups trying to solve problems. The students are expected to
use entrepreneurial and start-up techniques to try to get to solutions
quickly, delving into interviews with end-users before even the first class
meeting.

If untrained Duke students wouldn’t be your first resource for solving
persistent problems the military faces on the other side of the world, let
Hubler explain. He’s been commanding units on the front lines for years, and
though he knows what problems they face when members are hurt, he doesn’t
think he’s going to find creative solutions. “My doing this for so long in
some ways constrains my freedom of thought,” he says. “It’s fun having
creative leaders” from places far outside the military who can look at
problems in an utterly new way.

Then it’s time to hustle across the parking lot, because on their simulated
patrol, the Duke students have encountered a problem. Not enemy fire, though—a
“wounded” soldier in a vehicle, as planned by the trainers. The students heard
him groaning, then spent some time in confusion. Finally, some of the first-
aid training they’d received all morning kicked in, and they got to work. The
group removed him from the vehicle, got him on a litter, and hustled him to
the makeshift clinic where their instructors waited, though communications
breakdowns caused further difficulties.

Afterward, the students and their trainers went through an AAR—an After-Action
Report. The students noted that they had spent too much time worrying about
enemy fire and had lost track of the first-aid they had been trained in all
morning. Communication was a much bigger hurdle than they had expected, as
was, actually, everything. “I was randomly chosen to be the leader” in the
simulation, says Akanksha Ray, a junior major in public policy and economics.
“And the moment I had the vest on, I was just at a loss. I had no idea what to
do.”

That’s part of the plan, according to Tommy Sowers ’98, one of the teachers of
the course. Though a significant part of H4D involves straightforward teaching
about how to work with the military, many students are drawn to it because of
its entrepreneurial, interdisciplinary, and hands-on approach. “We were
thinking about our problem in very abstract terms,” Ray says, even after
countless interviews and planning sessions—an essential lesson, according to
Sowers.

“There are so many start-ups out there that don’t interface with their
customers,” he says. Getting the students out of their comfort zone and into a
situation where the problems the military deals with truly emerge wakes the
students up. Research and interviews are nice, but “there are no facts at
Duke”—that is, you can learn a lot at Duke, but to apply that learning you
need to be in the field.

The other course instructor is Steve McClelland (E'95), executive in residence
at the Pratt School of Engineering, who wanted to include teamwork in his
teaching on entrepreneurship but found a paucity of materials. “That’s how I
found [Sowers],” he says. “I had him come to my class.” Sports and the
military were the hot sources of teamwork-teaching leads, and Sowers told him
about H4D.

H4D was developed at Stanford by professors with military backgrounds as a way
of encouraging fast-acting startups to help military enterprises solve their
problems. It has been taught at schools like Brown and the University of
California-Berkeley, but Sowers brought it to Duke for the first time this
year. Sowers was a member of Army ROTC at Duke and taught at West Point, and
he came across the course in his work at MD5, a program office of the
Secretary of Defense. Once he began developing it for Duke, he turned to
people he knew from his time in service and at West Point. “My former students
were some of the first people I talked to: Have you got any problems?”

And eventually thirty-some students from all over Duke were broken into teams,
trying to solve specific military problems. Duke has even added a new wrinkle
to H4D: As both participants and advisers, alumni are included. “This is an
experiment to have alumni on the team,” Sowers says. “We’re trying to figure
out, how could we teach a thousand alumni?”

For help solving that problem, wonder where he could go?

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

