

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Developing Low-Cost Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscopes to Combat Diabetic
Retinopathy

December 17, 2020

Hafeez Dhalla is using materials science and 3D printing to develop a new
instrument for eye imaging that can combat a common cause of adult-onset
blindness

_Hafeez Dhalla, assistant research professor of biomedical engineering at
Duke, is no stranger to Harrington Engineering Quadrangle, or to its
reputation for innovation in health care. After graduating with his bachelor’s
in biomedical engineering, Dhalla stayed at Duke to pursue his PhD while
helping Joe Izatt, the Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of
Engineering, develop a surgical microscope with built-in optical coherence
tomography (OCT) capabilities. After several years working in industry, he
returned to campus on a new mission—leverage Duke’s capabilities and resources
to develop low-cost scanning laser ophthalmoscopes (SLOs) to combat diabetic
retinopathy._

You’re career thus far has focused on two different eye imaging technologies,
OCT and SLO. What’s the difference between them?

OCT, or optical coherence tomography, produces slices of image data that can
be stacked to produce a 3D representation of the tissue of interest. In the
context of retinal imaging, it produces cross-sectional views of the retina
that allow the ophthalmologist to readily visualize subsurface features of the
retina that are much more difficult to visualize in two-dimensional _en face_
, or top-down views.

SLO, or scanning laser ophthalmoscopy, is one of these _en face_ imaging
technologies. It does not provide tomographic slices or depth information, but
rather produces a surface view of the retina. Thus, it primarily competes with
fundus photography—which is basically just taking a color photograph of the
retina—rather than OCT.

But from a technological standpoint, OCT and SLO are very similar. Both
involve scanning a focused spot of light along the retina and collecting light
that is backscattered. And while the light sources and light detectors are
quite different, the scanning optics and patient interface are virtually
identical.

What are the advantages between the two?

The advantages that SLO and fundus photography have over OCT is that they
typically are implemented using visible wavelengths (red, green and blue)
rather than in the near-infrared. This gives them an additional dimension of
spectroscopic (color) information that can be important in identifying retinal
features that are associated with disease. These are particularly important as
they can be early markers of blinding diseases like diabetic retinopathy and
age-related macular degeneration.

Thus, while OCT, SLO and fundus photography can all be used for diagnosing
retinal disease, each technology has its own niche. While OCT has become the
standard of care in the ophthalmologists’ office, SLO has seen less adoption.
This is primarily due to competition from fundus photography, which has
existed for much longer and was the standard of care in retinal imaging before
OCT. And even in the post-OCT ophthalmology world, fundus photography still
has a place due to its spectroscopic information and relatively low cost.

What’s stopping SLO from being adopted as widely as OCT?

Between SLO and fundus photography, SLO is clearly the superior technology in
terms of performance, offering high resolution, wider fields of view, better
contrast, fewer image artifacts and superior ease of use. However, SLO
products are currently considerably more expensive than their fundus
photography counterparts. Particularly in price-sensitive markets such as
screening programs and optometry offices, fundus photography is generally
thought to be sufficient for referrals to ophthalmologists, where OCT is
readily available, at least in the USA.

One of my research projects is to leverage emerging technologies to produce a
lower cost SLO device that can unlock all of this technology’s inherent
benefits over fundus photography while still being competitive with fundus
photography on a cost basis. In particular, there is plenty of data to support
that screening programs for diabetic retinopathy (DR), which typically employ
low-cost fundus cameras, often miss early cases of DR due to image artifacts
and poor usability. If we can replace those low-cost fundus cameras with low-
cost SLOs, we can greatly improve the screening accuracy of these DR screening
programs that are vital to preventing blindness.

How can new, low-cost SLO devices help in this effort?

Diabetic retinopathy is a complication of diabetes, and the leading cause of
blindness in working-age adults. It is a growing problem as diabetes becomes
more prevalent. Fortunately, it is highly treatable if detected early, but
detecting it early enough for treatment to work depends on compliance with
annual eye exams or screenings.

To combat poor compliance rates with eye exams, health systems often employ
telemedicine screening programs where fundus photographs are acquired by
technicians—often in PCP offices, community clinics and even in patient
homes—and then read by a remote ophthalmologist. While somewhat effective,
most of these programs use handheld fundus cameras, which, frankly, are not
very good, though they are quite cheap. Their poor performance results in a
huge fraction of these imaging sessions ending with inconclusive results.

A low-cost, portable SLO device would be a huge improvement over the handheld
fundus cameras, as it is inherently robust against the glare and artifacts
that render so many fundus photos ungradable. Creating an SLO device that is
portable and cheap is a technological challenge, but one that I believe is
surmountable by leveraging economies of scale and emerging technologies such
as MEMS and 3D printing. Over the past couple of years, we have developed a
cost-scalable, portable SLO device, and are just waiting for the pandemic to
get under some semblance of control before we can evaluate its performance in
clinical settings.

Why did you come to Duke to pursue this work?

I was an undergraduate BME major at Duke, and it was in my senior capstone
biophotonics design course that I was first introduced to both OCT and
Professor Izatt. I enjoyed and excelled in the course, and after its
conclusion, Professor Izatt asked if I would be interested in joining his
group as a graduate student. While I considered other BME PhD programs, I had
developed deep ties to the Triangle over my four undergraduate years. Staying
in Durham, and pursuing a PhD in a field I was interested in, was the natural
choice.

After completing a joint post-doc at MIT and OHSU under Jim Fujimoto and David
Huang, respectively, the inventors of OCT, I returned to Durham and joined
Professor Izatt’s startup company, Bioptigen. There, I helped develop a device
where an OCT imaging system is integrated into a surgical microscope to
provide real-time cross-sectional imaging and guidance during ophthalmic
microsurgery. This work exposed me to how real-world considerations affect
medical device development, in particular, understanding clinical use cases
and workflows, gaining regulatory approval and navigating new product
introduction. After Leica Microsystems acquired Bioptigen, I was recruited
away to Volk Optical in Cleveland, Ohio to manage the strategy of their
portfolio of ophthalmic devices. Through those roles, I learned a great deal
about how the commercial side of the medical devices world works, and,
importantly, gained a lot of experience working with end-users and regulatory
bodies. But ultimately, I missed the intellectual freedom of academic
research, and so when the opportunity to come back to Duke presented itself, I
jumped on it.

What do you think the biggest developments in your field will be over the next
five to 10 years?

As with most fields, artificial intelligence and deep learning will likely be
major drivers of new technologies in the ophthalmic imaging field in the next
decade. The revolution has already begun with the recent FDA clearance of AI
algorithms that can diagnose diabetic retinopathy from a fundus photo. These
technologies are still relatively young, and only work under very well
controlled conditions, but it is likely only a matter of time before all types
of medical images will be able to be read and graded by AI algorithms, as
opposed to physicians. This will have dramatic implications for telemedicine
in general, and imaging-based diagnostic screening in particular.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

