

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Sound of a Broken Heart

September 20, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Using audio data from digital stethoscopes, Duke engineers and physicians are
training computers to spot cardiac complications

Physicians have been training to hear heart problems with stethoscopes for 200
years. Now engineers at Duke University are training computers hooked to the
device’s digital descendants to hear heart problems undetectable to the human
ear.

The project started when Ravi Karra, assistant professor of medicine at Duke
University Medical Center, lost his stethoscope and replaced it with a more
sensitive digital version. An expert in Left Ventricular Assist Devices
(LVADs), he noticed a subtle difference in the way the devices sounded when
patients were experiencing severe complications. Paired with his new digital
stethoscope’s capability of recording data, the observation led to a new idea.

“I noticed that LVAD pumps that were doing well sounded slightly different
than when they were having problems,” said Karra. “I thought maybe there was
an opportunity here to catch complications at home before they become
critical.”

An LVAD is a device used for patients that have reached end-stage heart
failure. Implanted into the left ventricle through open-heart surgery, the
battery-operated mechanical pump helps send blood throughout the rest of the
body. The devices are implanted in up to 3,000 patients in the United States
each year, and Duke Health has one of the largest LVAD programs in the world,
supporting more than 300 patients.

While the devices do help prolong and provide a better quality of life, they
come with their own set of problems. Nearly 60 percent of patients are
readmitted within the first year of receiving an LVAD, most with complications
that have already progressed to life-threatening stages.

One of the most common complications occurs when blood clots form in the
device. An LVAD is basically a motor spinning a number of fan blades to push
blood through the left ventricle. When clots begin to form, the motor must
compensate, which creates audible changes that are governed by physics.

Working with colleague Priyesh Patel, assistant professor of medicine at the
Duke University Medical Center, Karra turned to Duke Engineering to better
understand the mechanical underpinnings of what he was hearing.

“When a lawnmower goes over a thick patch of grass, the rotor blades struggle
to spin and the motor creates a different sound,” said Leslie Collins,
professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke. “Those changes in
the acoustic spectrum can be expressed through principles governing pump
frequency. We just have to be able to hear them and then work to understand
what the audio cues mean for the patient.”

For help with understanding the audible changes, the growing collaboration
brought in Boyla Mainsah, a research scientist in Duke’s Applied Machine
Learning Lab. Their hope is that with enough audio clips of LVADs in action,
machine learning can find patterns leading to the early detection of problems.

> “We’ve shown there’s a clear difference in the sound produced in the most
> devastating complications, but we want to be able to spot more minor
> complications in advance as well." - Priyesh Patel, assistant professor of
> medicine, Duke University Medical Center

In a small proof-of-concept study, the researchers recorded the sounds of two
patients’ LVADs that were dealing with acute blood coagulation both before and
after the struggling device was replaced. After completing a thorough spectral
analysis of the recordings, the researchers were able to show the same clear
differences in the acoustic harmonic frequencies between normal LVAD devices
and malfunctioning LVAD devices in both patients.

With that success in hand, the group has received a grant to conduct a larger
study from the Duke Institute for Health Innovation (DIHI), which promotes
innovation in health and health care through high-impact innovation pilot
programs. Their plan is to have 24 patients take regular recordings of their
LVAD for six months. Because 60 percent of patients experience complications
within a year, the researchers should be able to obtain recordings of a
malfunctioning LVAD well before symptoms appear.

“We’ve shown there’s a clear difference in the sound produced in the most
devastating complications, but we want to be able to spot more minor
complications in advance as well,” said Patel.

If successful, the method could prove useful for early detection in a wide
range of medical conditions that have nothing to do with LVADs—or even the
heart.

“Because of the way that pumps work, it should be relatively easy for machine-
learning algorithms to analyze their acoustic signatures and identify major
problems,” said Collins. “The idea could potentially be scaled up to much
larger applications that affect a much broader portion of the population.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

