

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Machine Learning Shapes Microwaves for a Computer’s Eyes

January 9, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Hardware and software tweak microwave patterns to discover the most efficient
way to identify objects

Engineers from Duke University and the Institut de Physique de Nice in France
have developed a new method to identify objects using microwaves that improves
accuracy while reducing the associated computing time and power requirements.

The system could provide a boost to object identification and speed in fields
where both are critical, such as autonomous vehicles, security screening and
motion sensing.

The new machine-learning approach cuts out the middleman, skipping the step of
creating an image for analysis by a human and instead analyzes the pure data
directly. It also jointly determines optimal hardware settings that reveal the
most important data while simultaneously discovering what the most important
data actually is. In a proof-of-principle study, the setup correctly
identified a set of 3D numbers using tens of measurements instead of the
hundreds or thousands typically required.

The results appear online on December 6 in the journal Advanced Science and
are a collaboration between David R. Smith, the James B. Duke Distinguished
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke, and Roarke
Horstmeyer, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke.

“Object identification schemes typically take measurements and go to all this
trouble to make an image for people to look at and appreciate,” said
Horstmeyer. “But that’s inefficient because the computer doesn’t need to
‘look’ at an image at all.”

“This approach circumvents that step and allows the program to capture details
that an image-forming process might miss while ignoring other details of the
scene that it doesn’t need,” added Aaron Diebold, a research assistant in
Smith’s lab. “We’re basically trying to see the object directly from the eyes
of the machine.”

In the study, the researchers use a metamaterial antenna that can sculpt a
microwave wave front into many different shapes. In this case, the
metamaterial is an 8x8 grid of squares, each of which contains electronic
structures that allow it to be dynamically tuned to either block or transmit
microwaves.

For each measurement, the intelligent sensor selects a handful of squares to
let microwaves pass through. This creates a unique microwave pattern, which
bounces off the object to be recognized and returns to another similar
metamaterial antenna. The sensing antenna also uses a pattern of active
squares to add further options to shape the reflected waves. The computer then
analyzes the incoming signal and attempts to identify the object.

By repeating this process thousands of times for different variations, the
machine learning algorithm eventually discovers which pieces of information
are the most important as well as which settings on both the sending and
receiving antennas are the best at gathering them.

“The transmitter and receiver act together and are designed together by the
machine learning algorithm,” said Mohammadreza Imani, research assistant in
Smith’s lab. “They are jointly designed and optimized to capture the features
relevant to the task at hand.”

“If you know your task, and you know what sort of scene to expect, you may not
need to capture all the information possible,” said Philipp del Hougne, a
postdoctoral fellow at the Institut de Physique de Nice. “This co-design of
measurement and processing allows us to make use of all the _a priori_
knowledge that we have about the task, scene and measurement constraints to
optimize the entire sensing process.”

After training, the machine learning algorithm landed on a small group of
settings that could help it separate the data’s wheat from the chaff, cutting
down on the number of measurements, time and computational power it needs.
Instead of the hundreds or even thousands of measurements typically required
by traditional microwave imaging systems, it could see the object in less than
10 measurements.

Whether or not this level of improvement would scale up to more complicated
sensing applications is an open question. But the researchers are already
trying to use their new concept to optimize hand-motion and gesture
recognition for next-generation computer interfaces. There are plenty of other
domains where improvements in microwave sensing are needed, and the small
size, low cost and easy manufacturability of these types of metamaterials make
them promising candidates for future devices.

“Microwaves are ideal for applications like concealed threat detection,
identifying objects on the road for driverless cars or monitoring for
emergencies in assisted-living facilities,” said del Hougne. “When you think
about all of these applications, you need the sensing to be as quick as
possible, so we hope our approach will prove useful in making these ideas
reliable realities.”

This research was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research
(FA9550-18-1-0187).

CITATION: “Learned Integrated Sensing Pipeline: Reconfigurable Metasurface
Transceivers as Trainable Physical Layer in an Artificial Neural Network.”
Philipp del Hougne, Mohammadreza F. Imani, Aaron V. Diebold, Roarke
Horstmeyer, and David R. Smith. Adv. Sci. 2019, 1901913. DOI:
10.1002/advs.201901913

# # #

## Related News

November 20, 2019

### Machine Learning Microscope Adapts Lighting to Improve Diagnoses

August 06, 2018

### Ricocheting Radio Waves Monitor the Tiniest Movements in a Room

March 26, 2018

### Beyond Materials: From Invisibility Cloaks to Satellite Communications

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

