

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Making Smart Meters Smarter

September 21, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineers seek energy insights by reading a building's electrical
signatures

Each of the appliances in your home has its own personality. Not that your
coffeemaker and refrigerator are dancing the night away à la Beauty and the
Beast, but they do each have their own energy signature.

Your coffeemaker likes to turn on around 7 a.m. every day and use 600 watts of
energy for precisely five minutes. Your refrigerator, however, is active all
day long, drawing 250 watts for tens of minutes at a time at regular
intervals.

With enough insight, it’s possible to determine which electronics most of the
energy in a home is feeding by these sorts of patterns. There are already
several commercial devices available for household use that attempt to do just
this, theoretically providing more control over energy usage and helping to
save money.

But these industry pioneers leave plenty to be desired. They struggle with
recognizing different appliances below a certain power consumption level.
Their installation is complicated and their insights are limited. They can’t
be used in larger industrial or professional buildings.

That’s where engineers at Duke University are entering the playing field.

“With the rise of smart meters that have the potential to include apps, we’ve
started exploring methods for real-time energy disaggregation that could be
deployed instantly into millions of smart meters around the country,” said
Kyle Bradbury, managing director of the Energy Data Analytics Lab at Duke, who
co-leads the project with Leslie Collins, professor of electrical and computer
engineering at Duke.

Smart meters are digital replacements for the traditional analog energy meters
used for decades in most every building across the nation. Their benefit is
the ability to transmit data back to the energy provider every hour. This
gives utilities a better understanding of power demands and trends in usage,
notifications of power outages, and real-time monitoring of power quality. It
also allows them to charge more during peak hours.

Bradbury wondered if these meters could be pushed to provide even more. If the
software that teases out your coffeemaker from your refrigerator and
television could be made small and efficient enough, it could be programmed
directly onto these meters already being installed on millions of homes. And
unlike today’s commercial products, these newer, smarter meters could provide
the information to both consumers and utility companies.

The trick is finding that line where there’s enough data to meet these goals,
but not so much that it overloads the meters and their networks.

“Right now, a smart meter typically transmits data every 60 minutes, and
that’s too large of a sample period to be able to pick out different
appliances being used,” said Mary Knox, a research scientist in Collins’s
laboratory. “We’re finding we can get pretty good results at intervals of six
seconds, but we’re trying to see what we can accomplish with different
algorithms by pushing that out to every 30 or 60 seconds.”

Many energy companies now send their customers monthly information on how
their energy use stacks up to other households. Research shows that these
insights help a home save roughly three percent on its energy bill. While
that’s an improvement, the number jumps to 12 percent when customers have
access to real-time information.

“The potential for energy savings is huge, as 40 percent of the energy used in
the United States is being consumed by buildings,” said Bradbury. “That figure
is split evenly between residential and commercial buildings. But because most
research is focused on residential consumers, there’s an opportunity to move
into commercial spaces.”

The challenge is that there’s much less information available about how
industrial and professional buildings use energy. Many use large, power-hungry
machines that don’t have a parallel in residential spaces. Others have
hundreds of monitors, computers, lights and mini-refrigerators in use at any
one time, making singling any one type of device out that much more
complicated.

To determine if this approach is even possible on a commercial scale, Bradbury
and Knox are developing synthetic datasets—computer models of the thousands of
devices that might be drawing power in a given business. By developing new
algorithms and applying them to the synthetic data, they hope to determine the
feasibility of disaggregating the energy usage of a commercial business.

“Maybe different businesses might have one or two key pieces of equipment that
we could pick out from the sea of offices that turn out to be crucial to
energy savings,” said Bradbury. “It’s a challenging area that we don’t even
know if we can help with yet. But because a single commercial building uses as
much power as dozens of residential households, the potential is too large to
ignore.”

“This line of work is going to be crucial in the next decade as more people
begin using smart meters, smart thermostats, electric cars, home energy
storage systems, solar panels and devices connected to the Internet of
Things,” said Knox. “We’re just starting to understand the value of this
data.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

