

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Laser Evaporation Technology to Create New Solar Materials

January 3, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Delicate hybrid organic-inorganic crystals open new possibilities for light-
based technologies

Materials scientists at Duke University have developed a method to create
hybrid thin-film materials that would otherwise be difficult or impossible to
make. The technique could be the gateway to new generations of solar cells,
light-emitting diodes and photodetectors.

The research team described their methods Dec. 22, 2017 in the journal ACS
Energy Letters.

Perovskites are a class of materials that—with the right combination of
elements—have a crystalline structure that makes them particularly well-suited
for light-based applications. Their ability to absorb light and transfer its
energy efficiently makes them a common target for researchers developing new
types of solar cells, for example.

The most common perovskite used in solar energy today, methylammonium lead
iodide (MAPbI3), can convert light to energy just as well as today’s best
commercially available solar panels. And it can do it using a fraction of the
material—a sliver 100 times thinner than a typical silicon-based solar cell.

Methylammonium lead iodide is one of the few perovskites that can be created
using standard industry production techniques, though it still has issues with
scalability and durability. To truly unlock the potential of perovskites,
however, new manufacturing methods are needed because the mixture of organic
and inorganic molecules in a complex crystalline structure can be difficult to
make. Organic elements are particularly delicate, but are critical to the
hybrid material’s ability to absorb and emit light effectively.

“Methylammonium lead iodide has a very simple organic component, yet is a very
high-performing light absorber,” said David Mitzi, the Simon Family Professor
of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke. “If we can find a new
manufacturing approach that can build more complex molecular combinations, it
will open new realms of chemistry for multifunctional materials.”

In the new study, Mitzi teams up with colleague Adrienne Stiff-Roberts,
associate professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke, to
demonstrate just such a manufacturing approach. The technique is called
Resonant Infrared Matrix-Assisted Pulsed Laser Evaporation, or RIR-MAPLE for
short, and was developed by Stiff-Roberts at Duke over the past decade.

Adapted from a technology invented in 1999 called MAPLE, the technique
involves freezing a solution containing the molecular building blocks for the
perovskite, and then blasting the frozen block with a laser in a vacuum
chamber.

When a laser vaporizes a small piece of the frozen target about the size of a
dimple on a golf ball, the vapor travels upward in a plume that coats the
bottom surface of any object hanging overhead, such as a component in a solar
cell. Once enough of the material builds up, the process is stopped and the
product is heated to crystallize the molecules and set the thin film in place.

In Stiff-Roberts’s version of the technology, the laser’s frequency is
specifically tuned to the molecular bonds of the frozen solvent. This causes
the solvent to absorb most of the energy, leaving the delicate organics
unscathed as they travel to the product surface.

“The RIR-MAPLE technology is extremely gentle on the organic components of the
material, much more so than other laser-based techniques,” said Stiff-Roberts.
“That also makes it much more efficient, requiring only a small fraction of
the organic materials to reach the same final product.”

Although no perovskite-based solar cells are yet available on the market,
there are a few companies working to commercialize methylammonium lead iodide
and other closely related materials. And while the materials made in this
study have solar cell efficiencies better than those made with other laser-
based technologies, they don’t yet reach those made with traditional solution-
based processes.

But Mitzi and Stiff-Roberts say that’s not their goal.

“While solution-based techniques can also be gentle on organics and can make
some great hybrid photovoltaic materials, they can’t be used for more complex
and poorly soluble organic molecules,” said Stiff-Roberts.

“With this demonstration of the RIR-MAPLE technology, we hope to open a whole
new world of materials to the solar cell industry,” continued Mitzi. “We also
think these materials could be useful for other applications, such as light-
emitting diodes, photodetectors and X-ray detectors.”

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation, Research Triangle
MRSEC (DMR-1121107). The research was conducted in instrumentation
laboratories that are members of the North Carolina Research Triangle
Nanotechnology Network (RTNN), which is supported by the National Science
Foundation (ECCS-1542015) as part of the National Nanotechnology Coordinated
Infrastructure (NNCI).

CITATION: “MAPbI3 Solar Cells with Absorber Deposited by Resonant Infrared
Matrix-Assisted Pulsed Laser Evaporation.” Wiley A. Dunlap-Shohl, E. Tomas
Barraza, Andrew Barrette, Kenan Gundogdu, Adrienne D. Stiff-Roberts, David B.
Mitzi. ACS Energy Letters, Dec. 22, 2017. DOI: 10.1021/acsenergylett.7b01144

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

