

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Materials Discovery

March 3, 2017

The $8.6-million Center for Autonomous Materials Design uses advanced data-
mining techniques to accelerate discovery and development of theoretical new
materials, sharing new knowledge through an open-access repository at
aflowlib.org

In the search for new materials, researchers are abandoning hunches and
intuition for theoretical models and pure computing power. The research is
part of the White House Materials Genome Initiative, launched in 2011 to
accelerate the pace of discovery and deployment of advanced material systems
crucial to achieving global competitiveness in the 21st century.

At Duke, this effort takes the shape of the AFLOW Library built and maintained
by Stefano Curtarolo, director of the Center for Autonomous Materials Design
(previously the Center for Materials Genomics), which is funded by an $8.6
million grant from the Department of Defense’s Multidisciplinary University
Research Initiative (MURI) program. The library contains experimental data of
known binary and tertiary compounds and allows users to predict properties of
theoretical new materials by building models of similar compounds atom-by-
atom.

“Physically going through potential combinations would take tens of thousands
of hours,” said Curtarolo. By employing data analytics, “We help identify
targets for new compounds much faster and more cheaply.”

For example, Curtarolo used the approach to identify several dozen theoretical
materials that could potentially replace the expensive and rare platinum found
in applications such as catalytic converters and cancer therapies. He also
recently discovered a way to predict which alloys will form metallic glasses
found in electrical applications, nuclear reactor engineering, medical
industries, structural reinforcement and razor blades.

“Experimentalists are constantly using our data to guide them in new
experiments,” said Curtarolo. “We’re planning to develop a common format so
that we can compare our theoretical calculations with actual experimental
data.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

