

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mentored Research

April 9, 2018

Duke Engineering offers students unparalleled opportunities to conduct
original research with faculty advisors. Almost 70 percent of our
undergraduates engage in intensive research, with one in five either
publishing or presenting a paper off campus before graduating.

Nothing prepares a student for their future endeavors better than hands-on
research.

> Almost 70 percent of our undergraduates have some sort of research
> experience

Beside building a resume and skillset while helping to shape their future
careers, students get to work side-by-side with experienced faculty at one of
the top 10 engineering schools in research productivity.

Duke Engineering offers two signature opportunities for students to pursue—the
Pratt Research Fellows and the Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenge Scholars
programs.

Thanks in large part to these programs, almost 70 percent of our
undergraduates have some sort of research experience, while one in five either
publish or present a paper off campus before graduating.

## Karyn Saunders: Grand Challenge Scholar

### Improving Water Recycling Designs for Rural Villages

Growing up in southern Florida with two engineers as parents, Karyn Saunders
has always been submerged in coastal environmental issues and challenges with
water quality.

At Duke, the Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenge Scholars program gave her the
opportunity to grapple with the vital problem of ensuring access to clean
water through a variety of linked experiences, from coursework to co-leading
an entrepreneurial effort to develop cost-effective temporary shelters with
water treatment for refugees.

#### Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenge Scholars

  * Unique educational journey that integrates five key themes: an
    interdisciplinary curriculum, innovation and entrepreneurship experience,
    a global experience, service learning, and a research project
  * Prepares well-rounded engineers for leadership roles in addressing the
    largest global issues of our time
  * Graduates are recognized by the National Academy of Engineering

**Learn more about the** NAE Grand Challenge Scholars Program »

Saunders also traveled to Honduras with Duke Engineers for International
Development to help install and then repair a greywater treatment system for a
local village. But even after multiple visits, the team’s solution was having
trouble.

Saunders made discovering why the focal point of her research for the Grand
Challenge Scholars research with faculty mentor David Schaad. She created a
computational model of their treatment system complete with complicated fluid
dynamics and the details of the specific site. With this new tool in hand,
Saunders has incorporated new ideas and emerging technologies into their plans
to solve the problems.

“Even though we doubled the size of the system’s grease trap during my second
visit, it was still needing emptied daily even though it was only being used
by a dozen homes,” said Saunders, who will continue her studies at Duke next
year as part of the 4+1 Masters of Engineering program. “They use a lot more
oil in their cooking than we do. That’s something I never would have thought
of and helped me understand how solutions that work in one community might not
work in others due to cultural, political or ethical concerns.”

## Harvey Shi: Pratt Research Fellow

### Simulating Blood Flow to Support Medical Decisions

Harvey Shi was one of the lucky students who managed to find a laboratory he
loved working with even before his junior year. His experience in Pratt
Research Fellows program allowed him to spend more time in the laboratory
during the school year and provided an entire summer to focus on his project.

Shi works in the laboratory of Amanda Randles, an assistant professor of
biomedical engineering with faculty appointments in mechanical engineering,
mathematics and computer science. Randles is using advanced parallel
processing algorithms and the world’s fastest supercomputers to simulate blood
flow. Depending on the project, it can look at an entire person’s vascular
system or dig down for a close-up of a specific section on a cellular level.

The goal is to eventually have physicians use this program to help determine
the best treatment options for their patients. For example, a simulation could
tell if fixing a specific abnormality within a patient’s aorta will help the
local blood flow. However, because doctors do not have the time to become
experts in using supercomputers, the program needs a more intuitive interface.

Shi designed and developed the software interface over the course of the
spring and summer semesters of and following his junior year. He is spending
his senior year incorporating virtual reality (VR) support for more immersive
display technologies, using the zSpace 3D display and commercial VR headsets
such as the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive.

“This project has really helped me build independent skills beyond the
research itself, such as working on all the details of my own project while
also keeping an eye on the big picture,” said Shi, who plans to take a gap
year after graduation before applying for MD/PhD programs. “It has also helped
me develop an understanding of the challenges associated with research and how
to persevere through them."

## Madison Danoff: Pratt Research Fellow

### Exposing Links between Environmental Contaminants and Neurological
Diseases

Madison Danoff came to Duke Engineering with the goal of becoming a genomic
engineer. Without a ready-made curriculum for such a path, she decided to
double major in biomedical engineering and biology with an emphasis on
genomics.

#### Pratt Research Fellows

  * Intensive research program that begins junior year, continues through
    graduation and can include the summer
  * Competitive program matches students with participating faculty members
    from each department

**Learn more about the** Pratt Research Fellows program »

Her Pratt Research Fellows project merged some of these interests, as Danoff
learned how to grow human "mini brains" in a laboratory, test their reactions
to various common environmental toxicants and then relate what she observed in
the lab to what was seen in human populations exposed to the same toxicants.

Danoff also sought to determine if vitamin C or vitamin D protected developing
neurons from nicotine-induced damage. Besides her bench work, Danoff also
created Python code to analyze how specific work performed by local
farmworkers correlated with exposure to neurotoxic pesticides, which led to
her being the first author on a journal article.

After spending more than a year on these projects, Danoff came away with two
very important discoveries—a mentor and the knowledge that marathon-like bench
work simply isn’t for her.

“My faculty mentor, Lisa Satterwhite, has helped me feel empowered as a female
engineer and is much more than just a mentor for my research,” said Danoff,
who will begin work after graduation as a consulting and execution analyst at
Pfizer. “Besides matching me with her, the Pratt Research Fellows was a great
experience because it went much more in depth than just a short, one-semester
project. It helped me realize that I need a more fast-paced profession.”

## Sam Kelly: Grand Challenge Scholar

### Making the Ocean a Smaller Place

The devices used to track marine mammals for long periods of time are part of
a niche industry.

Even though the commercially available technology being used today is decades
old, it still costs tens of thousands of dollars—but Sam Kelly is using his
research experience with the Grand Challenge Scholars program to try to fix
this disconnect.

#### Research Without Borders

Duke Engineering students can take advantage of a rich array of research
opportunities across campus. A few examples:

**Smart Home Fellows:** Project-based design research that addresses the very
broad goals of the Duke Smart Home Program to explore smart technology and
ideas that enable sustainable living. Students have access to the Duke
Engineering-operated Smart Home as a "living laboratory."

**Bass Connections:** Brings together Duke faculty, graduate and undergraduate
students from every corner of campus to explore real-world issues in
interdisciplinary research teams.

**Independent Study:** Many engineering students conduct intensive, hands-on
research for academic credit—either in engineering or in Duke's schools of
arts & sciences, medicine, environment, and beyond.

“The components needed for these devices only cost around $60, but renting
what’s available now can cost $10,000,” said Kelly, who chose to come to Duke
from his home country of New Zealand. “That price point is forcing scientists
to miss out on a lot of potential uses for it."

Working with Martin Brooke, associate professor of electrical and computer
engineering, Kelly’s goal is to create an open-source, depth-rated, modular
tag that reliably and accurately stores data.

He has tested prototypes on bottlenose dolphins in Hawaii and Atlantic
sharpnose sharks on the east coast. The results suggested improvements that
could be made, and Kelly has been hard at work implementing them into a new
prototype that he hopes to test on mantas in Indonesia and whale sharks in the
Philippines.

Outside of the Grand Challenge Scholars program, Kelly is working to create
visual barcode-like tags that could be spotted by drones and used on land
animals. He is also one of the leaders of Duke’s Shell Ocean Discovery XPRIZE
team, which is developing an autonomous system to map the deep ocean floor
using a large flying drone and smaller submersible scanning devices.

“The Grand Challenge Scholars project has tied together a lot of really
interesting components that would otherwise be disparate,” said Kelly.
“Developing skills outside of mechanical engineering and getting exposure into
the world of entrepreneurship helps set me apart from other students while
deciding what to do after graduation.”

Read more about Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate research experience
»

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

