

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Michael Drozd

May 16, 2014

Founder, Wright Foods

**Graduation Year:** 1989

**Degrees at Duke:**  
Bachelor of Science  
PhD

**Major/Program:**  
Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering

****

* * *

**Why did you decide to major in ECE?**

I always knew I wanted to start a company; that was always my dream from when
I was in high school. So, I had a double major in electrical engineering (it
was called EE at the time) and Econ. I went into engineering more for the
problem-solving side. If you are trying to start a business, the most
important thing is problem-solving day to day. And there is no better training
for that in the world than engineering. To me the number one value of the Duke
engineering degree was that it wasn’t your typical “sit in a classroom and
learn nothing but engineering” degree. It was a very diverse education.

**How did you decide what industry or industries to work in?**

I had access to the computer in the early 80s, which was a rarity. I was using
a Radio Shack™ TRS-80 computer. In middle school I wrote the system that
generated report cards. They used for years and years afterward. My first
company was a software company. I ended up writing software for a wastewater
treatment plant; I worked for a foam company that needed an inventory system.
Back in the day there wasn’t a lot of off-the-shelf software to choose from.

**How did you end up back at Duke?**

I went to Silicon Valley, which was the mecca of entrepreneurship and started
a business making windows that you could turn from clear to opaque. But the
venture capitalist who owned the patents killed it.

**That disappointment didn’t kill your interest in entrepreneurship?**

No, if anything it made me more stubborn. I came back to Duke to start a
business. I worked with an amazing professor, William T. Joines, and ended up
getting my PhD. After I graduated in 1997 we started a company called
Industrial Microwave Systems, which build large, industrial microwave
equipment. We raised money, grew the company and then sold it to a company in
New Orleans called Laitram, LLC.

**How did you come to be involved in the food industry?**

Through my work at Industrial Microwave Systems I came to know some professors
at N.C. State University (Josip Simunovic and Ken Swartzel) who were world
leaders in aseptic processing. We kept a dialogue going, and in 2006, they
came to me and said, “Hey, we really want to start a company.” I helped them
as an advisor and consultant with the initial formation, but as I saw the
progress they were making I got more and more excited. I couldn’t pass it up.
It’s a game-changing technology. In 2010, I took over as CEO of the company
and took the business in the different direction. Up until then, the company
was doing more consulting. We are now a contract manufacturer. We produce
foods for other companies at a plant in Troy, N.C.

**How did your Duke degree prepare you for what you are doing now?**

I have enough engineering training that I can challenge assumptions. I can be
active in helping solve problems and guiding the technology. As an engineer, I
have the training to step in, not just in an engineering situation, but also
in production or finance, to ask: what are we doing? Why are we doing it? And
then push it to the next level.

**What can engineering students do now to prepare themselves for the work
places of the future?**

Don’t have a laser focus just on engineering. The real world throws you curve
balls. Be broad in your interests, and use your Duke experience to learn not
just how to react to situations but to be proactive.

_Written by Karyn Hede_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

