

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mikkelsen Wins AFOSR Young Investigator Award

January 30, 2015

Maiken Mikkelsen will use the award to continue her research into making
fluorescent molecules emit light much faster than their natural rates.

Maiken Mikkelsen, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering
and physics at Duke University, has earned an award through the Air Force
Office of Scientific Research Young Investigator Research Program. The program
supports scientists and engineers who have received their PhD in the last five
years and show exceptional ability and promise for conducting basic research
through three-year grants of $120,000.

Mikkelsen will use the award to continue her research into making fluorescent
molecules emit light much faster than their natural rates. In a recent study,
Mikkelsen increased the photon emission rate of fluorescent molecules to
record levels by precisely sandwiching them between metal nanocubes and a gold
film. Her research, however, hinted that even faster results could be obtained
by placing molecules with a certain orientation in specific locations under a
silver nanocube.

In the proposed experiment, the fluorescent molecule’s orientation will be
controlled through chemical techniques such as functionalization and DNA-
assisted self-assemblies. If successful, the molecule’s fluorescence rate will
likely be too fast for their current equipment to see. So, with the help of
the grant, the researchers will also build a new detection scheme with a
resolution only limited by the length of the ultrafast laser pulses used. This
would enable the detection of molecules emitting light in less than one
millionth of one millionth of a second. Mikkelsen also plans to begin
exploring ways to integrate this basic research into practical applications,
such as super-bright and ultrafast LEDs for light-based technologies to rival
modern telecommunications systems.

“We could also make fast sources of single photons that could be used for
quantum cryptography,” said Mikkelsen. “This technology would allow secure
communications across vast distances that could not be hacked—at least not
without breaking the laws of physics.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

