

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Mind—and an Ear—for Big Data

February 23, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

At Duke, engineering doctoral student Chris Tralie discovered a passion for
analyzing the topology of music—and for teaching undergraduates about the
power of data science

Chris Tralie wasn’t even working with big data when he came to Duke as a
graduate student. But a movement gaining steam here in 2013 helped him realize
he had the technical skillset to reveal structures and patterns where others
saw chaos—or nothing.

“There were people working on Big Data problems in various departments when I
first got to campus,” said Tralie, a doctoral candidate in electrical &
computer engineering (ECE) and a National Science Foundation Graduate Research
Fellow. “Then the Information Initiative at Duke launched. It was brilliant
because it brought everyone together and let them learn from each other’s
work. There was real and sudden excitement in the air.”

Tralie found his niche while learning about topology with John Harer, a
professor of mathematics with a secondary appointment in ECE. The class boiled
down to understanding the “shape” of data. Tralie thought, “Why can’t we do
this with music?”

Tralie designed a program that analyzes many different musical parameters of a
song and mathematically reduces each time point into 3D space. The resulting
shape can help determine which genre of music a song belongs to and can even
recognize covers of songs by other bands.

“Nobody thought you could do that, because of the differences in vocals and
instruments,” said Tralie.

Tralie took his own academic journey and used it to turn other Duke students
on to big data—creating a “Data Expedition” using his method for visualizing
songs as a fun and approachable way to teach undergraduates how to design
data-crunching algorithms.

Data Expeditions are projects proposed and taught by graduate students within
the context of an existing undergraduate course. “Data Expeditions and Data+
both benefit our undergraduates by making technical subjects more relevant and
exciting, but they’re also professional development opportunities for our
graduate students,” said Robert Calderbank, director of iiD, which sponsors
both programs. “Industry and academia both need people who can lead projects
and manage multidisciplinary teams, so these experiences can provide a
competitive advantage for Duke graduates.”

“The Data Expeditions were really useful for me growing as a mentor,” said
Tralie. “I got to work with really talented students who were still learning
the basics and yet had amazing new ideas that I could learn from too. Those
skills will translate to my future career, where I hope to be a faculty member
advising graduate students of my own someday in engineering or applied math.”

He also developed a new course for graduate students about using data
analytics on video recognition challenges, like tracking heartbeats from video
clips. Tralie’s own promising work in that arena can potentially add another
element to an app developed to recognize signs of autism by another of his
advisors, Guillermo Sapiro, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering.

After defending his dissertation this spring, Tralie plans to stay in
academia, at least in part because he loves the teaching experiences he has
had while at Duke.

“Mentoring and teaching forces me to explain my work in simple terms, which
raises my own understanding of it,” said Tralie. “Plus the students all end up
going out and doing their own interesting things, which they can later teach
me about in return. They’re like my eyes and ears out there in the fast
developing world of Big Data.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

