

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Morales Named Executive Director of Duke’s Master of Engineering Management
Program

July 20, 2021

An executive-in-residence with the program since 2017, Morales wants to
deliver a transformative student experience underpinned by the program’s
“Professionalism and Five Principles"

Longtime tech industry executive and author Luis Morales has been named
executive director of Duke University’s highly ranked Master of Engineering
Management (MEM) program, effective July 1. An executive in residence with MEM
since 2017, Morales succeeds Brad Fox, who served nearly 18 years in the role
and is now associate dean for master’s programs in the Pratt School of
Engineering.

Before joining Duke, Morales spent 28 years in various engineering and
leadership roles at Cisco Systems and AT&T Labs. Over the past several years,
he has made important contributions to the MEM program focused on increasing
faculty engagement. Some of these include co-sponsoring monthly MEM faculty
meetings, leading the definition of MEM’s “Professionalism and Five
Principles,” driving a refresh of the MEM elective tracks and being a founding
member of MEM’s Executive Challenge—a 24-hour event that provides students a
capstone opportunity to use everything they’ve learned throughout their
classes to solve a real-world business challenge.

Below, Morales talks about what drew him to the Duke MEM program, what plans
lie ahead and how he’d like to deliver MEM’s transformational experience under
his leadership.

## What originally brought you to the Duke Engineering MEM program?

I became an engineer because I’ve always been fascinated by machines—studying
them, designing them and repairing them. Early in my career, however, I
realized that I had another passion—helping people achieve their full
potential. I was able to satisfy that desire to some extent by pursuing
engineering leadership and management roles throughout my two decades of
industrial experience. But once my children graduated college and found jobs
of their own, I felt I had more freedom to pursue this passion to its full
extent. I had written a book about quality management that I thought would
make for a good subject for a graduate level course. Through a combination of
luck and networking, I had the opportunity to pitch the idea to Brad Fox in
May 2017. Unbeknown to me, he was looking to add a course on quality
management to MEM’s elective portfolio. We met, I made the pitch and the rest
is history.

## Besides teaching, what are some of the contributions you’ve made to the MEM
program?

When I transitioned out of the corporate culture in 2017, I found myself
having a lot more discretionary time on my hands. I decided to invest my extra
time volunteering at the university and the broader Triangle community. I
quickly realized that many of my fellow MEM faculty were eager for more
engagement, so I partnered with one of my colleagues, Dean Hering, to host a
monthly faculty meeting. These meetings served as a catalyst for faculty
collaboration and created a greater sense of community. I then took the
official role of faculty liaison, serving as an advocate of faculty with
administration and vice-versa. One of my proudest accomplishments in this role
was leading the development of MEM’s Professionalism and Five Principles
(Communication, Teamwork, Ethics, Critical Thinking and Humanness). These
principles tell our students where we want to build core competency during
their MEM experience. We think of them as our brand promise to students.

## What do you see as the current strengths of the MEM program?

Our biggest strength is our reputation. The program has been around for almost
25 years, and being able to build and maintain a strong reputation has been
one of our greatest accomplishments. Another strength is our curriculum, both
in terms of depth and breadth of student choices. There are four core classes
that all students take, but then they are free to choose four electives from a
wide variety of options taught by more than 30 faculty with rich backgrounds
in engineering, business and law. And, of course, being part of the larger
Duke community is always a plus. People want to come here and be a part of the
Duke experience.

## What do you want to accomplish in the coming years as executive director?

I have four priorities designed to help us take this program to the next
level. First is to develop our “MEM Vision 2027.” Next year MEM will be
celebrating 25 years, and as we do that, we want to envision our next 25. I’m
chartering a team comprised of representatives of our community—faculty,
students and administration—with the goal of developing a vision of where we
want our program to be in five years. With everyone’s engagement and
participation, this vision will serve as our “north star,” informing our
strategies and execution priorities going forward.

Second is to ensure our curriculum remains current and relevant. As long as
society needs engineers, our charter of preparing the next generation of
engineering leaders, managers and mentors will remain relevant. The challenge
for us is to ensure our curriculum is adapting to the needs of industry while
remaining true to our core principles. To that end, I’ll work with faculty to
ensure our core courses and electives continue to be refreshed as the needs of
industry evolve. For example, this year we’re introducing not just a course
but an entire elective track around software management. We are doing this to
ensure our students are prepared to lead in an environment that is
increasingly software centric.

I also want to work with our whole MEM community in attracting an increasingly
diverse pool of candidates. This will allow us to deliver a rich cultural
experience to our students.

Last but not least, I want to make sure our program is known for its
operational excellence. We are easy to do business with, we interact
seamlessly with each other, we are focused on student experience and we have
fun doing it!

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

