

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# NAE Grand Challenges Scholar Program Recognized with Gordon Prize

May 20, 2022 | Adapted from USC Viterbi School of Engineering

The National Academy of Engineering recognized the program's innovative
approach to engineering education

Launched 13 years ago at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering, the USC Viterbi
School of Engineering and the Olin College of Engineering, the NAE Grand
Challenges Scholars Program has played a key role in reimagining 21st Century
engineering education.

To date, the program has been adopted at 97 engineering schools and produced
1,760 engineers uniquely equipped to tackle humanity's most pressing global
problems.

On May 6, the program's four founders received the National Academy of
Engineering's (NAE) Gordon Prize—the nation's most celebrated honor for
engineering education.

The NAE cited the founders for "creating an innovative education program that
prepares students to become future engineering leaders who will address the
NAE Grand Challenges of Engineering."

> The founders of the NAE Grand Challenges Scholars Program, including a Duke
> dean of engineering, were honored for "creating an innovative education
> program that prepares students to become future engineering leaders."

Recipients included:

  * Thomas C. Katsouleas, former Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke
  * Yannis C. Yortsos, dean of the USC Viterbi School of Engineering
  * Richard K. Miller, president emeritus of the Olin College of Engineering
  * Jenna P. Carpenter, incoming president of the American Society of
    Engineering Education (ASEE)

The presentation was made at USC Viterbi on May 9. Dean Yortsos accepted the
prize on behalf of the four founders.

Since 2001, the National Academy of Engineering has awarded the Gordon Prize
to educators making exceptional advances in engineering and technology
education.

## Addressing the Grand Challenges

In the program, scholars focus their research experience on exploring
solutions to one of the NAE's 14 Grand Challenges for Engineering in the 21st
Century—which range from making solar energy more economical to creating
better medicines.

Students can receive the distinction of being an NAE Grand Challenges Scholar
by demonstrating five competencies:

  * Research
  * Multidisciplinary understanding
  * Entrepreneurship
  * A global mindset
  * Social consciousness

In practice, the Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenges Scholars Program at
Duke—named to honor the founding former dean, is structured so that a
scholar's chosen challenge permeates every aspect of their academic trajectory
and informs their scholarship, interests and passions. In the year of their
undergraduate commencement, students present a portfolio of their
accomplishments and receive the distinction upon their graduation.

Nationally, in the Class of 2022, there are over 300 undergraduate NAE Grand
Challenges Scholars—including 11 at Duke.

## One Scholar's Story

Rachael Lau, who graduated in 2020 from Duke Civil & Environmental Engineering
(CEE) as a Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenges Scholar, spoke about her own
experience with the program at the award presentation.

"As an undergraduate, I had a difficult time in the traditional classroom
environment. I became an engineer because I love people and solving problems,
but many aspects of my education were making me second guess my ability to be
an engineer," Lau said. "It wasn't until I learned about the Grand Challenges
Scholars program and what it stood for that I really felt connected to my
place in engineering."

Lau tackled the challenge of equitable access to safe drinking water and
sanitation, joining Duke Engineers for International Development student
organization and traveling to Madagascar after her sophomore year to advance
work on a multi-year water pipeline project.

"While I was there, I witnessed how the natural environment directly alters
the quality of life of individuals—specifically through disaster—and that's
when it all clicked," Lau said.

Building her educational experience around the framework of disaster
engineering took Lau to Jiangsu in China to study the effects of climate
change on air and water quality. This spurred her to form a research
collaboration between Duke and the Institute of Engineering-Pulchowk in Nepal,
which focused on earthquake early warning systems. Lau now studies geohazard
modeling and mitigation as a Duke PhD student in the lab of geomechanics
expert Manolis Veveakis.

As a recently named Fulbright Research Scholar, Lau will conduct the next year
of her research in Kathmandu. "The NAE Grand Challenge Scholars Program
brought me to my passion and my people," she said.

> "As we face some of humanity's greatest challenges in the decades ahead,
> inspiring students on how they can save lives and make the world a better
> place is a very concrete way that we can use knowledge in service of society
> and inspire the next generation of leaders."
>
> **David Schaad** | Director, Katsouleas NAE Grand challenges Scholar program
> at Duke

## Making the World a Better Place

Both the Grand Challenges and the NAE Grand Challenges Scholars Program
emanated from the important belief that human ingenuity and innovation, if
properly summoned and nourished, can solve the grand challenges of our times,
Yortsos said.

Duke CEE Professor of the Practice David Schaad, who directs the Katsouleas
NAE Grand Challenges Scholar Program at Duke, said: "Having students be able
to follow their passions and focus on such important and tangible challenges
becomes a transformative experience for so many of the scholars. It has been
exciting to see how their research dovetails with their summer experiences and
on-campus interests to fully embrace the change they can create in society and
themselves. As we face some of humanity's greatest challenges in the decades
ahead, inspiring students on how they can save lives and make the world a
better place is a very concrete way that we can use knowledge in service of
society and inspire the next generation of leaders."

Become an NAE Grand Challenges Scholar at Duke

## Related News

April 13, 2020

### Duke Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenges Scholars Send a Call to Action

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

