

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Name That Space!

March 19, 2015

The new innovative 'maker space' in Gross Hall opens this fall, and the Duke
community is invited to suggest its new name – entries due April 6.

There’s something about garages and basements that connect with creativity.
It’s a well-known story how Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak built their first
batch of 50 computers in a California garage. Thomas Edison's first creative
space was the workbench he built in the basement of his parents’ home.

Hoping to facilitate and inspire similar innovation and entrepreneurial
collaboration, Duke this fall will open an Interdisciplinary Innovation &
Design Workspace in the renovated lower level of Gross Hall.

The 7,600-square-foot workspace, open to all Duke students, will include an
optics lab and light machine shop, workbenches, team meeting spaces, and
dedicated project rooms that can be reserved for short-term and long-term
project needs.

“As we began the planning process, student groups told us they needed more
space to work on their co-curricular and entrepreneurial projects,” said
George Truskey, senior associate dean for research at the Pratt School of
Engineering. “We think the modular and flexible design of the workspace will
immensely enrich the student experience by providing dedicated design and
project space for them.”

Truskey led a planning group of faculty, staff, and students from across
campus, which worked with architects from the firm of Lord, Aeck, Sargent to
develop and design the workspace.

The architects surveyed 11 student teams associated with Pratt, the Nicholas
School of the Environment and the Duke Energy and Innovation &
Entrepreneurship initiatives. These student groups expressed a strong need for
design-build space, entrepreneurial space, and room for team projects. Of
particular need were spaces for fabrication and prototyping, and for project
storage.

The new space continues efforts at Duke over the last several years to provide
flexible creative spaces for academic and co-curricular activities – including
such spaces as The Link in Perkins Library, DuHatch in the Teer Building and
The Edge in Bostock Library.

With its focus on teamwork, pursuit of new ideas and entrepreneurship, the
workspace also fits into the missions of other programs and projects at Duke,
including the Duke Innovation and Entrepreneurship Initiative, Duke Energy Hub
and Innovation Co-Lab.

We hope this new space unleashes the inventive genius in the Duke community,
Truskey said.

Learn more about the Interdisciplinary Innovation & Design Workspace at
foundry.duke.edu.

## Contest details

To start the countdown to the opening of the renovated Gross Hall ‘maker
space’ this fall, the Duke community is being asked to give the new space a
new name.

First prize is a $100 gift certificate to Duke Stores and priority access to
space reservations in the Fall 2015 semester. Two runners-up will receive
priority space reservations in the fall as well.

Submit contest entries by **April 6** at pratt.duke.edu/workspace/contest

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

