

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Silver-Plated Gold Nanostars Detect Early Cancer Biomarkers

July 21, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

New optical sensing platform can detect genomic cancer biomarkers directly in
patient tissues

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have engineered a method for
simultaneously detecting the presence of multiple specific microRNAs in RNA
extracted from tissue samples without the need for labeling or target
amplification. The technique could be used to identify early biomarkers of
cancer and other diseases without the need for the elaborate, time-consuming,
expensive processes and special laboratory equipment required by current
technologies.

The results appeared online on May 4 in the journal Analyst.

“The general research focus in my lab has been on the early detection of
diseases in people before they even know they’re sick,” said Tuan Vo-Dinh,
director of the Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics and the R. Eugene and
Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke.
“And to do that, you need to be able to go upstream, at the genomic level, to
look at biomarkers like microRNA.”

MicroRNAs are short RNA molecules that bind to messenger RNA and stop them
from delivering their instructions to the body’s protein-producing machines.
This could effectively silence certain sections of DNA or regulate gene
expression, thus altering the behaviors of certain biological functions. More
than 2000 microRNAs have been discovered in humans that affect development,
differentiation, growth and metabolism.

As researchers have discovered and learned more about these tiny genetic
packages, many microRNAs have been linked to the misregulation of biological
functions, resulting in diseases ranging from brain tumors to Alzheimer’s.
These discoveries have led to an increasing interest in using microRNAs as
disease biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Due to the very small amounts of
miRNAs present in bodily samples, traditional methods of studying them require
genetic-amplification processes such as quantitative reverse transcription PCR
(qRT-PCR) and RNA sequencing.

While these technologies perform admirably in well-equipped laboratories and
research studies that can take months or years, they aren’t as well-suited for
fast diagnostic results at the clinic or out in the field. To try to bridge
this gap in applicability, Vo-Dinh and his colleagues are turning to silver-
plated gold nanostars.

“Gold nanostars have multiple spikes that can act as lighting rods for
enhancing electromagnetic waves, which is a unique feature of the particle’s
shape,” said Vo-Dinh, who also holds a faculty appointment in Duke chemistry.
“Our tiny nanosensors, called ‘inverse molecular sentinels,’ take advantage of
this ability to create clear signals of the presence of multiple microRNAs.”

While the name is a mouthful, the basic idea of the nanosensor design is to
get a label molecule to move very close to the star’s spikes when a specific
stretch of target RNA is recognized and captured. When a laser is then shined
on the triggered sensor, the lightning rod effect of the nanostar tips causes
the label molecule to shine extremely brightly, signaling the capture of the
target RNA.

The researchers set this trigger by tethering a label molecule to one of the
nanostar’s points with a stretch of DNA. Although it’s built to curl in on
itself in a loop, the DNA is held open by an RNA “spacer” that is tailored to
bind with the target microRNA being tested for. When that microRNA comes by,
it sticks to and removes the spacer, allowing the DNA to curl in on itself in
a loop and bring the label molecule in close contact with the nanostar.

Under laser excitation, that label emits a light called a Raman signal, which
is generally very weak. But the shape of the nanostars—and a coupling effect
of separate reactions caused by the gold nanostars and silver
coating—amplifies Raman signals several million-folds, making them easier to
detect.

“The Raman signals of label molecules exhibit sharp peaks with very specific
colors like spectral fingerprints that make them easily distinguished from one
another when detected,” said Vo-Dinh. “Thus we can actually design different
sensors for different microRNAs on nanostars, each with label molecules
exhibiting their own specific spectral fingerprints. And because the signal is
so strong, we can detect each one of these fingerprints independently of each
other.”

In this clinical study, Vo-Dinh and his team collaborated with Katherine
Garman, associate professor of medicine, and colleagues at the Duke Cancer
Institute to use the new nanosensor platform to demonstrate that they can
detect miR-21, a specific microRNA associated with very early stages of
esophageal cancer, just as well as other more elaborate state-of-the-art
methods. In this case, the use of miR-21 alone is enough to distinguish
healthy tissue samples from cancerous samples. For other diseases, however, it
might be necessary to detect several other microRNAs to get a reliable
diagnosis, which is exactly why the researchers are so excited by the general
applicability of their inverse molecular sentinel nanobiosensors.

“Usually three or four genetic biomarkers might be sufficient to get a good
diagnosis, and these types of biomarkers can unmistakably identify each
disease,” said Vo-Dinh. “That’s why we’re encouraged by just how strong of a
signal our nanostars create without the need of time-consuming target
amplification. Our method could provide a diagnostic alternative to
histopathology and PCR, thus simplifying the testing process for cancer
diagnostics.”

For more than three years, Vo-Dinh has worked with his colleagues and Duke’s
Office of Licensing and Ventures to patent his nanostar-based biosensors. With
that patent recently awarded, the researchers are excited to begin testing the
limits of their technology’s abilities and exploring technology transfer
possibilities with the private sector.

“Following these encouraging results, we are now very excited to apply this
technology to detect colon cancer directly from blood samples in a new NIH-
funded project,” said Vo-Dinh. “It’s very challenging to detect early
biomarkers of cancer directly in the blood before a tumor even forms, but we
have high hopes.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health
(1R21CA196426) and the National Science Foundation (1106401).

CITATION: “Plasmonic Nanobiosensors for Detection of MicroRNA Cancer
Biomarkers in Clinical Samples,” Bridget M. Crawford, Hsin-Neng Wang,
Christina Stolarchuk, Richard J. von Furstenberg, Pietro Strobbia, Dadong
Zhang, Xiaodi Qin, Kouros Owzar, Katherine S. Garman, Tuan Vo-Dinh. Analyst,
May 4, 2020. DOI: 10.1039/D0AN00193G

## Related News

August 17, 2017

### Gold Nanostars and Immunotherapy Vaccinate Mice Against Cancer

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

