

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Test Screens Wastewater Biosolids for Environmental Contaminants

February 13, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Simple, inexpensive method assesses environmental and agricultural effects of
treated waste used as fertilizer

Every year waste treatment facilities in the United States process more than
eight million tons of semi-solid sewage called biosolids—about half of which
is recycled into fertilizer and spread on crop land.

The practice helps solve storage issues and produces revenue to support the
treatment plants, but what else is being spread in that sludge?

As industry invents new materials and chemicals for modern products, many find
their way to our skin and bloodstream and, subsequently, into our sinks and
toilet bowls. More than 500 different organic chemicals have been identified
in the biosolids used as fertilizer across the United States.

Federal law regulates remnant levels of heavy metals and pathogens in the
biosolid fertilizer, but other chemicals are not currently accounted for
because it has been prohibitively expensive to even begin sorting out which
ones might be ecologically unfriendly, says Claudia Gunsch, professor of civil
and environmental engineering at Duke University.

In a recent study, Gunsch and colleagues from Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering describe a new, cost-effective method for screening chemicals for
potential environmental impact. They have used the test to show that
triclosan, an antimicrobial agent currently under fire from environmentalists,
has troubling concentrations in the environment, and they raise suspicions
about three other commonly used antimicrobial products.

The team describes their new testing method and some of its early findings in
the Feb. 4 2014 Journal of Environmental Science & Technology.

“Because we’re finding many emerging contaminants in biosolids, we wanted to
develop a method where you could check them quickly and efficiently and flag
the most potentially dangerous ones for more complex measurements,” said Ryan
Holzem, a graduate student in civil and environmental engineering at Duke and
first author on the study.

An important benefit of fertilizing soil is replenishing nitrate levels, which
are crucial to growing plants. One indicator of the soil’s health is the rate
at which native bacteria are breaking down those nitrates through a process
called denitrification. If antimicrobials or other chemical agents are
affecting the bacteria’s ability to complete this process, the soil’s quality
is degraded.

The new screening technique involves growing a bacterium commonly found in
soil that is important to the nitrogen cycle—Paracoccus denitrificans—in pure
laboratory cultures. Researchers then add various amounts of the chemicals in
question to determine the minimum amount that affects the denitrification
process.

“We chose the nitrogen cycle as an indicator because we wanted to represent an
environmental process that is critical to agriculture,” Holzem said.
“Typically you have to use a complex, $50,000 piece of equipment to measure
the gasses that are produced by the active bacteria. But our method isolates
denitrification on its own so that we can use simple processes to measure it.”

To test the new screening technique, Holzem and Gunsch worked with Heather
Stapleton, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering, to
examine six commercial antimicrobial chemicals. Two are used in abundance:
triclosan, which is found in most antibacterial soaps and toothpastes, and
triclocarban, which isn’t far behind in both uses and criticisms. They also
looked at four emerging antimicrobial compounds used in applications such as
pesticides, paper mills, deodorants and antimicrobial household goods.

“These chemicals are everywhere,” said Gunsch. “Our society loves products
that prevent microbial growth.”

The Duke team found that environmental levels of triclosan should raise an
immediate red flag, given its effects on the critical Paracoccus bacteria, and
that three of the other five compounds tested are found in concentrations high
enough to warrant concern.

The results showed not only that the technique works, but that it is more
sensitive than laborious and more expensive testing methods involving
measurements of gene expression and cell viability.

While the screening process only looked at the effects of six antimicrobial
agents on one indicator of environmental health—the nitrogen cycle—Gunsch and
Holzem say the technique could be used to test a variety of compounds through
many different ecological indicators.

“We hope that companies developing new chemicals might use this method to
start looking at potential environmental threats before incorporating them
into consumer products,” said Gunsch.

Their work was supported in part by the National Science foundation grant
CBET-0854167.

###

CITATION: “Determining the Ecological Impacts of Organic Contaminants in
Biosolids using a High-Throughput Colorimetric Denitrification Assay: A Case
Study with Antimicrobial Agents,” Holzem, R.M., Stapleton, H.M., Gunsch, C.K.
_Environmental Science and Technology_ , Feb. 4, 2014. DOI: 10.1021/es404431k

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

