

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Study Abroad Program Designed for Engineering Students

September 14, 2016

New "Duke-In" program provides a study abroad option for engineering students
that also counts toward graduation course requirements

Studying abroad just got a lot easier for engineering students at Duke
University. Thanks to a new summer class designed specifically for engineers,
students can knock out required courses while living in Costa Rica.

The new class is part of the Duke-In study abroad program, which offers
classes that are different from most study abroad programs because they are
taught by Duke faculty and count as Duke courses.

“It’s not a transfer class that appears as a Duke class on a transcript,” said
Bob Malkin, professor of the practice of biomedical engineering, who is one of
the designers of the new course. “Duke-In classes are not ‘like’ Duke classes
or ‘equivalent’ to Duke classes, they _are_ Duke classes.”

There are dozens of Duke-In programs around the world studying subjects like
Romance languages, Asian culture and exotic architecture. These classes,
however, typically take place in the fall and don’t count toward graduation
for an engineer, making it difficult to take them while remaining on schedule.

The new course changes that. Students will be able to take BME 271 (ECE 280)
or MATH 353 and HSS course (SP92), moving themselves well along the way toward
graduation. But instead of knocking these classes out in laboratories and
classrooms in Durham, students will immerse themselves in the culture and
field work of Costa Rica.

BME 271 is a biomedical engineering course with a decidedly electrical and
computer engineering bent. The required signals and systems class teaches a
variety of tools, such as mathematical and computer programming solutions to
problems like drug delivery or debugging circuits.

“The programming experience is beneficial no matter what problems they’re
attacking,” said Libby Bucholz, a lecturer in biomedical engineering and a
teacher for the course.

Instead of learning these tools in Durham, students in the Duke-In class will
complete fieldwork involving Costa Rican volcanoes and birds. While visiting
volcanoes like Poas and Irazu, students will measure their seismic activity
and analyze their recordings in the frequency domain. And in the jungles of
the Costa Rican National Park, students will write software to identify some
of the 857 bird species through their calls alone by analyzing their songs
with time-frequency plots.

The unique study abroad opportunity will be offered during the second summer
session every year starting in 2017. Students can take courses during the
first summer session on campus, such as Organic Chemistry or Spanish (as the
program is homestay based in a Spanish-speaking country, some Spanish
knowledge is helpful going in.) Another option is to complete an internship
the first summer session and the study abroad program the second.

While the program is designed with engineers in mind, it is open to all Duke
students across campus. Organizers expect the program to be very popular,
however, and it will be limited to the first 25 students who sign up.

“The course takes advantage of the unique environment of Costa Rica,” said
Bucholz. “You can’t get that experience in a laboratory at Duke.”

“Almost one-third of Pratt students already get some kind of study abroad
experience during their time at Duke, and we hope the addition of this class
will increase those numbers even further,” said Malkin. “Studying abroad is
massively important for engineers. For students to work toward the application
of science to help humanity, they need to understand the humans they are
trying to help.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

