

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Iman Marvian: Harnessing Quantum Mechanics for Tomorrow’s Technologies

October 26, 2017

New faculty member Iman Marvian applies quantum information theory to fields
from computing to condensed matter physics

Iman Marvian will join the faculty of Duke University’s Departments of
Electrical and Computer Engineering and Physics beginning January 1, 2018. An
expert in quantum information theory, Marvian will join and complement a
growing corps of faculty members working to explore and harness quantum
phenomena for technological applications.

Classical laws of physics break down dramatically at extremely small
scales—individual atomic particles follow their own rules dominated by
surprising concepts such as quantum entanglement and the Heisenberg
Uncertainty Principle.

Researchers have been working to understand these rules and manipulate an
atom’s quantum state for decades. Some groups, such as the one at Duke led by
Jungsang Kim, professor of electrical and computer engineering, are closing in
on scalable quantum computers. Others are working to develop new methods of
encryption and communication.

Marvian works with the theory that’s essentially the backbone on which these
advances are built.

> “There are very strong ties between departments and everybody is open to new
> ideas. Things are really happening. It’s an exciting time to be at Duke.”

“The principles of quantum theory were discovered nearly 90 years ago, so the
textbooks written in the 1930s are still valid," said Marvian, who joins Duke
from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Many amazing implications of
this theory, however, were not understood until recently. In the last thirty
years, we have been able to better understand quantum theory and develop the
technology to control individual quantum systems. It’s a very exciting time to
be a quantum theorist.”

The basic building blocks of a quantum device are qubits. These are the
quantum mechanical analogue of a classical logical bit, which can be in a “1”
or a “0” state, except a qubit can be in both positions at the same time.

Scientists are close to being able to reliably connect a few dozen qubits
together into a functioning quantum computer. While this is an unprecedented
achievement, many questions remain about how exactly to go about using the
computers that result. Fifty qubits is still not enough to solve interesting
problems such as factoring large numbers. So how can researchers use these
emerging computers to explore something interesting until they become more
powerful?

“Interacting with experimentalists gives me new insights and opens up new
questions on how quantum information theory can be useful beyond a particular
case,” said Marvian.

Marvian will be working closely with Kim’s group, as well as the laboratory of
Kenneth Brown, another newly hired faculty focusing on quantum computers, on
all of these questions and more. As a member of the new Provost-supported
Quantitative Initiative at Duke, he’ll also work to develop collaborations in
other areas where quantum information theory can be useful, such as
understanding quantum gravity and condensed matter physics.

As for why he decided to join the faculty at Duke, Marvian cites the culture
and momentum he experienced during his time on campus.

“There are very strong ties between departments and everybody is open to new
ideas,” said Marvian. “Things are really happening. It’s an exciting time to
be at Duke.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

