

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Technology Colors In the Infrared Rainbow

November 9, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Perfect absorbers capture specific wavelengths from the visible to the
infrared spectrums

Researchers have devised a technology that can bring true color to infrared
imaging systems, like the one used to track Arnold Schwarzenegger through the
jungle in the movie “Predator.”

Traditional infrared imaging systems may look colorful on screen, with warm
objects appearing redder and whiter than their surroundings. But these images
are not created from actual colors. They are based on the amount of thermal
radiation—or infrared light—that the camera captures.

The ability to identify different wavelengths—or colors—of the infrared
spectrum would capture much more information about the objects being imaged,
such as their chemical composition.

In a new study, a team lead by Maiken H. Mikkelsen, the Nortel Networks
Assistant Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Physics at Duke
University, demonstrates perfect absorbers for small bands of the
electromagnetic spectrum from visible light through the near infrared. The
fabrication technique is easily scalable, can be applied to any surface
geometry and costs much less than current light absorption technologies.

Once adopted, the technique would allow advanced thermal imaging systems to
not only be produced faster and cheaper than today’s counterparts, but to have
higher sensitivity. It could also be used in a wide variety of other
applications, such as masking the heat signatures of objects.

The study was published online Nov. 9 in Advanced Materials.

“By borrowing well-known techniques from chemistry and employing them in new
ways, we were able to obtain significantly better resolution than with a
million-dollar state-of-the-art electron beam lithography system,” said
Mikkelsen. “This allowed us to create a coating that can fine-tune the
absorption spectra with a level of control that hasn’t been possible
previously, with potential applications from light harvesting and
photodetectors to military applications.”

“This doesn’t require top-down fabrication such as expensive lithography
techniques and we don’t make this in a clean room,” added Gleb Akselrod, a
postdoctoral researcher in Mikkelsen’s laboratory. “We build it from the
bottom up, so the whole thing is inherently cheap and very scalable to large
areas.”

The technology relies on a physics phenomenon called plasmonics. The
researchers first coat a surface with a thin film of gold through a common
process like evaporation. They then put down a few-nanometer-thin layer of
polymer, followed by a coating of silver cubes, each one about 100 nanometers
(billionths of a meter) in size.

When light strikes the new engineered surface, a specific color gets trapped
on the surface of the nanocubes in packets of energy called plasmons, and
eventually dissipates into heat. By controlling the thickness of the polymer
film and the size and number of silver nanocubes, the coating can be tuned to
absorb different wavelengths of light from the visible spectrum to the near
infrared.

“What is so attractive about the film/nanocube system is its remarkable
simplicity and flexibility,” said David R. Smith, the James B. Duke Professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke. “The unique absorbing
properties of the nanocubes can be predicted with straightforward formulas,
making it easy to quickly determine recipes for surface coatings that provide
desired spectral properties. The nanocube system eliminates, or at least
vastly reduces, cost and manufacturing issues, so that we can focus on
impacting exciting application areas such as photovoltaics or thermal
coatings.”

For an example of the latter, if you can control the colors of light that a
material absorbs, then you can also control the wavelengths of light that it
emits. By making the nanocubes larger to absorb wavelengths corresponding to
thermal radiation, this technology could suppress or mask an object’s natural
thermal radiation, otherwise known as “black body radiation.”

Coating photodetectors to absorb only specific wavelengths of infrared light
would allow novel and cheap cameras to be made that could see different
infrared colors.

“We haven’t made the device that’s actually going to take that energy and
convert it to an electrical signal yet,” said Akselrod. “That’s going to be
the next step.”

This work was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research
(FA9550-15-1-0301, FA9550-12-1-0491).

###

CITATION: “Large-Area Metasurface Perfect Absorbers from Visible to Near-
Infrared.” Gleb M. Akselrod, Jiani Huang, Thang B. Hoang, Patrick T. Bowen,
Logan Su, David R. Smith, Maiken H. Mikkelsen. Advanced Materials, 2015. DOI:
10.1002/adma.201503281

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

