

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke to Construct New Building to Advance Engineering Education and Research

February 27, 2018

150,000-square-foot building will house new education, research and
entrepreneurship initiatives at the Pratt School of Engineering

Duke University will soon begin constructing a 150,000-square-foot building to
house new education, research and entrepreneurship initiatives at the Pratt
School of Engineering. Site preparation is already under way for construction
to begin in March, with the building scheduled to open in late 2020.

## A TRANSFORMATIVE NEW SPACE

_**New Engineering Building at a Glance**_

**150,000 gross square feet** (~88,000 net square feet), 5 occupied floors

Estimated cost: **$115 million**

2 floors focused on **active student learning** , with classrooms, teaching
and design laboratories, **specialized educational centers** focused on
Innovation & Entrepreneurship and Energy, Engineering & Environment; a
200-seat auditorium; and a Learning Commons dedicated to nurturing teaching
excellence and enhancing the student experience

3 floors housing signature **Research Neighborhoods** focused on Health
Innovation, Computing & Intelligent Systems, and Environmental Health – with
35 research lab modules, 50+ offices and over 170 graduate student
workstations, increasing opportunities for partnerships with researchers
across campus

Generous **collaboration spaces** , conference rooms and gathering spaces
throughout

**Strategically located** at the nexus of Duke’s schools of engineering,
medicine, and arts & sciences

The approximately $115-million facility will position Duke Engineering to
achieve its vision for transforming the student experience and enhancing the
sciences through interdisciplinary collaborations focused on health, computing
and the environment, according to Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of
Engineering.

"This is a transformational project that will help catapult Duke Engineering
to the next level of impact in education and research," said Bellamkonda. "We
are grateful to Duke's Board of Trustees and senior leadership for supporting
this investment in our future, and to our alumni and friends for their
continued enthusiastic and generous support. We are excited about the
opportunities this space will provide to help us achieve our 'outrageous
ambitions' for collaborative research and innovation in graduate and
undergraduate education, across engineering and the university as a whole."

The building, which is yet to be named, features three floors dedicated to
interdisciplinary research "neighborhoods." Designed to promote collaboration,
these spaces will intermingle faculty and students from different departments
who work toward shared goals, including improving human health, advancing
computing and intelligent systems, and paving the way toward a more
sustainable future.

"This new engineering building represents an important step toward our goal of
sustained excellence in technology and science," said Provost Sally Kornbluth.
"It will give faculty and students in the Pratt School an opportunity to work
with each other in innovative ways, to test their ideas, and to solve
difficult problems, in the best tradition of Duke Engineering."

The building will also expand engineering student programming space by nearly
50 percent, with two floors for active-learning teaching and design spaces;
specialized educational centers focused on entrepreneurship and energy,
engineering and environment; and a Learning Commons dedicated to nurturing
teaching excellence and the student experience.

"The new building design promotes active student learning," said George A.
Truskey, senior associate dean of engineering, who led a team of faculty in
programming the space with input from students. "The design labs are very open
and flexible, allowing student teams to meet for brainstorming and then build
and test their project designs. The open classrooms also will enable more
active learning approaches, allowing students to discuss problems together in
groups and then switch to a more traditional lecture orientation to present
their results to their classmates."

## A SCHOOL ON THE RISE

**_Duke Engineering’s Upward Trajectory_**

  * Graduate student enrollment has grown by **23%** in the past five years
  * Duke now has **110** tenure-track faculty members in engineering—up 15% in
    the past five years
  * Our faculty rank among the **top 15** in their fields in scholarly
    productivity and **#9** among top U.S. engineering schools in per-faculty
    research expenditures
  * External research funding has nearly doubled over the past decade to
    **$70+ million** in 2017
  * Duke **ranks #11** among the world’s most innovative universities, **top
    20** for undergraduate engineering and **#29** for graduate engineering

_Statistics as of FY2017_

By providing ample space for all students to participate in experiential,
team-based projects, the facility will support Duke Engineering's vision for
inspiring students to become creative problem-solvers through an innovative
new curriculum focused on design, data science, computational thinking,
research and entrepreneurship, Bellamkonda said.

The building site is located on Research Drive near the Fitzpatrick Center for
Interdisciplinary Engineering, Medicine & Applied Sciences and next to Bostock
Library.

Fundraising is under way toward the new facility, with naming opportunities
available for key interior spaces as well as the building as a whole. For
information, contact Jim Ruth, associate dean and director of development, at
919-660-5361 or james.ruth@duke.edu.

## Building for the Future of Duke

Opened for classes in January 2021, the Wilkinson Building is a transformative
space to advance engineering education and research at Duke.

Explore giving opportunities

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

