

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Graduate Program in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke and Duke
Kunshan Universities Aims to Prepare Global Tech Leaders

June 18, 2018

The program’s initial areas of concentration include computer engineering,
data analytics, image and vision, and robotics

A new international Master of Engineering (MEng) program in Electrical and
Computer Engineering (ECE) seeks to develop tech leaders with a global
perspective by providing an educational experience at both Duke University and
Duke Kunshan University. The jointly managed program was approved by the Duke
Board of Trustees in May 2018.

The international MEng program will aim to recruit top ECE students in China
and neighboring countries through its emphasis on international experience and
contexts. Students enrolled in the two-year program will spend their first
year at Duke Kunshan University and their second year at Duke in the Pratt
School of Engineering. Upon graduation from the program, students will receive
a formal degree from Duke University and become alumni of both Duke University
and Duke Kunshan University (DKU).

A partnership between Duke University and Wuhan University led to the creation
of Duke Kunshan in 2013. “The onset of the master’s program in Electrical and
Computer Engineering marks an important transition at DKU, as it represents
our strong commitment to bring Duke’s advanced engineering education and
pedagogy into the mainstream of our university campus here in China,” said
Denis Simon, Duke Kunshan’s executive vice chancellor and an expert on Sino-US
science and technology relations.

The program’s initial areas of concentration include computer engineering,
data analytics, image and vision, and robotics.

“Duke ECE faculty are recognized leaders in data science, advanced computing
and intelligent systems, consistently ranked at the top of their fields,” said
Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “The new
program offers an opportunity to expand the global impact of their work and
our collaborations with Duke Kunshan University to meet the growing need for
high-quality education in these transformative areas.”

The MEng in ECE program is unique in that its students learn business and
industrial management fundamentals as well as core engineering skills. Its
emphasis on industry is reinforced by required summer internships. The
curriculum as a whole is designed to develop engineers who have the knowledge,
leadership skills and creative problem-solving abilities necessary to thrive
in the global tech sector.

“We view the training and mentoring of master's students as an integral part
of our educational mission, and we have no doubt that our master’s graduates
will move on to leadership positions in industry,” said Duke ECE Department
Chair and William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of Engineering Krishnendu
Chakrabarty. “It is increasingly important for our students to gain a global
perspective so that they can benefit from opportunities in the US, China and
elsewhere. We hope to train the next generation of engineers to build bridges
and advance technology on a global scale.”

The new master’s program will be led by Professor Xin Li of Duke University
and Duke Kunshan University, who also directs the new Institute of Applied
Physical Sciences and Engineering (iAPSE) and the Data Science Research Center
at Duke Kunshan University.

“Building upon our excellence of integrated research and education in
electrical and computer engineering, I look forward to working with my Duke
and Duke Kunshan colleagues and growing a successful and impactful MEng
program that trains world-class talent for the global economy," said Li.

“The newly approved graduate program following the approval of DKU's data
science undergraduate degree program, the DKU Institute of Applied Physical
Sciences and Engineering, and iAPSE affiliated centers will provide the much
desired vertical integration of research and education, and further enhance
DKU's emerging data science program,” said Duke Kunshan’s Vice Chancellor for
Academic Affairs and former Physics Department Chair at Duke University,
Haiyan Gao.

The program plans to offer its first courses in the fall of 2019, pending
approval by China’s Ministry of Education.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

