

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Lens Design Drastically Improves Kidney Stone Treatment

March 18, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineers design a modified lens for shock wave machines

Duke engineers have devised a way to improve the efficiency of lithotripsy—the
demolition of kidney stones using focused shock waves. After decades of
research, all it took was cutting a groove near the perimeter of the shock
wave-focusing lens and changing its curvature.

“I’ve spent more than 20 years investigating the physics and engineering
aspects of shock wave lithotripsy,” said Pei Zhong, the Anderson-Rupp
Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University.
“And now, thanks to the willingness of Siemens (a leading lithotripter
manufacturer) to collaborate, we’ve developed a solution that is simple, cost-
effective and reliable that can be quickly implemented on their machines.”

The study appears online the week of March 17, 2014, in the _Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences_.

The incidence of kidney stones in the United States has more than doubled
during the past two decades, due at least in part to the expanding waistlines
of its citizens. The condition has also been linked to hot, humid climates and
high levels of stress—a combination of living environments that seems to have
led to a rise in kidney stone rates of veterans returning home from Iraq and
Afghanistan.

During the past two decades, lithotripter manufacturers introduced multiple
changes to their machines. Rather than having patients submerged in a bath of
lukewarm water, newer machines feature a water-filled pouch that transfers the
shock wave into the flesh. An electrohydraulic shock wave generator used in
the past was replaced by an electromagnetic model that is more powerful, more
reliable and more consistent.

The new designs made the devices more convenient and comfortable to use, but
reduced the effectiveness of the treatment. After years of research, Zhong and
his colleagues have determined why.

The increased power in some third-generation shock wave lithotripters narrowed
the wave’s focal width to reduce damage to surrounding tissues. But this power
jump also shifted the shock wave’s focal point as much as 20 millimeters
toward the device, ironically contributing to efficiency loss and raising the
potential for tissue damage. The new electromagnetic shock wave generators
also produced a secondary compressive wave that disrupted one of the primary
stone-smashing mechanisms, cavitation bubbles.

“We were presented with the challenge of engineering a design solution that
mitigated these drawbacks without being too expensive,” said Zhong. “It had to
be something that was effective and reliable, but also something that the
manufacturer was willing to adopt. So we decided to focus on a new lens design
while keeping everything else in their system intact.”

The solution was to cut a groove near the perimeter of the backside of the
lens and change its geometry. This realigned the device’s focal point and
optimized the pressure distribution with a broad focal width and lower peak
pressure. It also allowed more cavitation bubbles to form around the targeted
stone instead of in the surrounding tissue.

In laboratory tests, the researchers sent shock waves through a tank of water
and used a fiber optic pressure sensor to ensure the shock wave was focusing
on target. They broke apart synthetic stones in a model human kidney and in
anesthesized pigs and used a high-speed camera to watch the distribution of
cavitation bubbles forming and collapsing—a process that happens too fast for
the human eye to see.

The results showed that while the current commercial version reduced 54
percent of the stones into fragments less than two millimeters in diameter,
the new version pulverized 89 percent of the stones while also reducing the
amount of damage to surrounding tissue. Smaller fragments are more easily
passed out of the body and less likely to recur.

“We feel we have exceeded expectations in our evaluation of this new lens
design, which is based on solid physics and engineering principles,” said
Zhong, who expects the new lens to enter clinical trials in Germany this
summer.

“My hope is that this will be a breaking point demonstrating that effective,
interactive collaboration between academia and industry can really improve the
design of lithotripters that will benefit millions of stone patients worldwide
who suffer from this painful disease," Zhong said. "Our design, in principle,
can be adapted by other manufacturers to improve their machines as well. I
would like to see all lithotripsy machines improved so that urologists can
treat stones more effectively and patients can receive better treatment and
feel more comfortable with the procedure.”

This research is a collaborative effort between Zhong’s group in the Pratt
School of Engineering and Dr. Glenn Preminger’s group in urologic surgery at
Duke University Medical Center, together with Sorin Mitran’s group in the
department of mathematics at UNC - Chapel Hill. Andreas Neisius, a urology
fellow from Mainz, Germany, and Nathan Smith, a postdoctoral Fellow in Zhong’s
group, made equal contributions as first authors.

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (grant
R37-DK052985-17) and a Ferdinand Eisenberger grant of the German Society of
Urology (ID NeA1/FE-11).

###

“Improving the lens design and performance of a contemporary electromagnetic
shock wave lithotripter,” Neisius, A., Smith, N., Sankin, G., Kuntz, N.J.,
Madden, J.F., Fovargue, D.E., Mitran, S., Lipkin, M.E., Simmons, W.N.,
Preminger, G.M., Zhong, P. PNAS, March 17, 2014. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1319203111

A free version of this paper is available for download via DukeSpace.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

