

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tatiana Segura: Promoting Healing and Healthy Tissue

August 22, 2017

New faculty member Tatiana Segura engineers substrates to help the body heal
itself

Tatiana Segura will join the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering with joint appointments in
dermatology and neurology in Duke’s School of Medicine beginning March 1,
2018. By engineering hydrogel biomaterials that support and promote cell
growth, Segura seeks to unlock the body’s innate ability to repair damaged or
diseased tissue—adding to an expanding core of soft-matter engineering
expertise at Duke.

Absent some sort of genetic defect, everybody in the world has amazing
abilities to heal themselves. The regeneration process, however, can be
hindered by a wide variety of obstacles. Diseases can suppress the biological
signals or disrupt the physical support systems needed for a speedy recovery.
The body’s own immune system can overreact to damage, causing obstructive
inflammation. Even the natural aging process slows down the healing process.

“Everyone has seen children who get hurt and then are jumping around again the
next day,” said Segura, who joins Duke’s faculty from the University of
California – Los Angeles (UCLA). “But when adults get hurt, it takes a while
before we’re up and about again. One of the things that changes with age is
the matrix that surrounds and supports all of the cellular functions of our
organs and tissues. This material gets old. But we think we can engineer an
artificial material to make the body act young again.”

This artificial material creates an environment that helps local, native stem
cells do their best work to promote healing—providing the physical structure
as well as the biological cues that encourage cells to grow. Because the
material is made of natural substances, it breaks down and is removed by the
body as the tissue heals around it.

Segura’s lab is currently researching the use of this healing material in two
areas—the skin and the brain.

For skin healing, Segura and a team of colleagues formed a spinout company
called Tempo Therapeutics that is focusing on hard-to-treat wounds such as
those that can lead to amputations. Early tests already show that the
technology can help wounds heal four times better within the first week after
an injury. And because skin treatments are relatively easy to move through the
FDA approval process, Segura hopes to see products hit the market within the
next couple of years.

Brain healing, however, is not nearly as simple. Segura has already shown
success in helping young mice repair brain damage after a stroke. This is a
best-case scenario, however, as older mice do not heal as well and most
victims of stroke often have secondary conditions that impair their ability to
heal.

Besides conducting tests on more difficult mouse models, there is also the
small hurdle that such a technology has never been approved by the FDA for use
in humans.

“Nobody has tried to get FDA approval for a brain-healing approach like this
before, so we’d be moving into uncharted territory,” said Segura. “That’s part
of the reason I’m excited about coming to Duke. There’s a substantial track
record for moving technologies from the laboratory to the clinic, and there
are already systems in place for the testing that might be required for my
technology.”

Segura—who has been named a Duke MEDx Investigator in recognition of her work
spanning engineering and medicine—also cites the large number of faculty at
Duke who are interested in her specialty as the reason for her move. While
UCLA has an excellent program in developing healing treatments that introduce
new stem cells, Segura’s work recruits the body’s more plentiful endogenous
stem cells instead, making the technology easier to translate into a clinical
setting.

Segura says she is also excited to work with both graduate and undergraduate
students at Duke. For most of her career, she has filled her laboratory
exclusively with students, only recently hiring postdocs to expand the
expertise and mentorship available to her researchers in training.

“When students first start out they’re young and excited. They think
everything is just about the coolest thing they’ve ever seen,” said Segura,
who also runs a summer research program for underrepresented minority students
in her laboratory. “That eagerness helps them come up with ideas that I never
would have thought of and helps keep me energized. I’m excited to work with
the different students Duke has to offer and see what we can achieve
together.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

