

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Watching Primordial Neural Cells Grow in 3D Scaffolds to Heal Brain Injury

July 15, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Tracking how neural progenitor cells respond to biochemical signals while
moving and growing through a biocompatible jungle gym could help develop
brain-healing biogels

Researchers at Duke University have captured days-long time-lapse videos of
young neural cells moving and growing within a novel 3D synthetic
biocompatible structure. By literally watching how the cells respond to
natural biochemical signals embedded within the material, biomedical engineers
hope to develop biogels that can repair and regrow brain tissue after a stroke
or other trauma.

The results appear online June 22 in the journal Advanced Materials.

Repairing and regrowing brain tissue is a difficult task. Left to its own
devices, the brain does not regenerate lost synapses, blood vessels or other
structures after suffering an injury, such as from a stroke. Dead brain tissue
is instead absorbed, leaving behind a cavity devoid of anything recognizable
as healthy brain tissue.

But that hasn’t stopped researchers from trying to regenerate damaged brains
anyway. One common approach used by biomedical engineers is to provide a new
medium for the diverse pieces of brain tissue to move into, loaded with
various nutrients and biological instructions to encourage growth.

While scientists in the field have historically reached for a homogenous,
gelatinous biomaterial to support neural regrowth, Tatiana Segura, professor
of biomedical engineering at Duke University, has developed a different
approach. Her biomaterial built to encourage all types of healing and growth
is made of millions of tiny gelatinous spheres packed together to form a
stable scaffold.

“Most other labs use nonporous hydrogels that are sort of like a huge chunk of
Jell-O, and cells have to eat away at it before they can lay down material to
regrow,” said Segura. “Ours is more like soft oranges packed in a box, which
provides a bunch of pockets and void spaces where cells can move through and
grow into.”

> “Most other labs use nonporous hydrogels that are sort of like a huge chunk
> of Jell-O, and cells have to eat away at it before they can lay down
> material to regrow. Ours is more like soft oranges packed in a box, which
> provides a bunch of pockets and void spaces where cells can move through and
> grow into.”
>
> tatiana segura

The box-of-oranges approach — called microporous annealed particle (MAP)
scaffolds—has proven promising in a wide number of tissues such as skin and
bones. And in 2018, it was shown to reduce inflammation and promote neural
progenitor cell (NPC) migration into the stroke lesion.

This observation led Katrina Wilson, PhD candidate in Segura’s lab, to
engineer MAP scaffolds to further guide how these progenitor cells
differentiate. Not quite as immature and dexterous as stem cells, neural
progenitors are still capable of becoming most, if not all, types of cells
found in the brain. Being able to tell them where to go and what to become
would be a boon to developing brain-healing treatments.

In the human body, stem cells and progenitor cells respond to biological cues
from various structures and proteins found around them. One source of
instruction comes from the laminin proteins that make up the body’s biological
scaffolding called the extracellular matrix.

In the new paper, Wilson embedded different combinations of portions of these
proteins called peptides within her synthetic MAP scaffolding and then watched
what happened — quite literally. She created time-lapse videos over the course
of several days that show how progenitor cells respond to the peptide-painted
MAP scaffold.

> “There is a big potential for neurospheres to be used as models for studying
> developmental neurotoxicity or for drug screening, and the cells spreading
> and differentiating is highly applicable to our ongoing work in promoting
> tissue regeneration after stroke.
>
> katrina wilson

“We saw the cells attach to the scaffold over time and actually physically
move it around,” Segura said. “We used to think of it as just a jungle gym
with kids playing on it. But that’s not what we saw, cells exert physical
forces on the scaffold that are sufficient to cause it to move.”

This observation, however, was not uniform for all peptide cocktails. MAP
scaffolds modified with a different peptide ended up turning into tiny balls
called neurospheres, which did not move the scaffold but instead darted in and
out of different depths while retaining their ability to choose different
maturation paths. Both results, Wilson says, could be useful for a wide
variety of medical applications.

“There is a big potential for neurospheres to be used as models for studying
developmental neurotoxicity or for drug screening, and the cells spreading and
differentiating is highly applicable to our ongoing work in promoting tissue
regeneration after stroke,” Wilson said. “While most platforms for this type
of work are stuck in two dimensions and aren’t great for simulating what’s
happening in a three-dimensional body, our platform is 3D and could make a
great model for testing and understanding how NPCs work.”

With many potential routes to pursue, Wilson says her next move is to use what
she learned and apply the entire set of peptide signals to the lab’s mouse
stroke models to see if it enhances cell recruitment and response to regrow
blood vessels and nerves.

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health and the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (R01NS079691).

“Stoichiometric post modification of hydrogel microparticles dictates neural
stem cell fate in microporous annealed particle scaffolds.” Katrina L. Wilson,
Sasha Cai Lesher Perez, Moawiah M. Naffa, Sean H. Kelly, Tatiana Segura.
Advanced Materials, 2022. DOI: 10.1002/adma.202201921

## Related News

March 04, 2022 | Duke Science & Technology

### Tatiana Segura: A Stroke Healing Gel

May 21, 2018

### New Biomaterial Helps Regrow Brain Tissue After Stroke in Mice

August 22, 2017

### Tatiana Segura: Promoting Healing and Healthy Tissue

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

