

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Students Advance to Finals in $7 Million Ocean Discovery XPRIZE
Competition

March 7, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

After years of work from hundreds of students, the Duke Ocean XPRIZE team has
qualified for the final round of competition aimed at autonomously mapping the
ocean floor

Building on the research of more than two years of students in an innovative
engineering course, a Duke University team is among the final nine teams left
standing in the $7 million Shell Ocean Discovery XPRIZE that will conclude
this fall.

The Shell Ocean Discovery XPRIZE presents teams with the ambitious goal of
mapping 250 square kilometers of ocean up to 4,000 meters deep within a half-
meter resolution in less than 24 hours. The competition also requires teams to
identify and image 10 archeological, biological or geological features. To
make the task even harder, no boats or humans are allowed—the surveying must
be completed with a system of autonomous drones that can all fit within a
standard shipping container.

"A lot of people who do this sort of work for a living didn't even bother
trying to compete," said Martin Brooke, associate professor of electrical and
computer engineering at Duke and leader of Duke's team. "Most people viewed
this challenge as completely and totally impossible. And they might be right."

The XPRIZE contests have a reputation for being challenging and audacious. The
Google Lunar XPRIZE competition to send a robot to the moon ended this year
without a winner. But the original Ansari XPRIZE to launch people into space
with a reusable spacecraft found a winner, and the Wendy Schmidt Ocean Health
XPRIZE aimed at developing ocean pH sensors found three.

Whether teams are able to complete the challenge or not, the lofty goals of
the XPRIZE competitions serve to push science forward, catalyze new markets
and provide incentives for talented, intelligent people to innovate and make
significant impacts.

More than 30 teams submitted proposals at the start of the competition, and 19
were chosen as semi-finalists based on their technical merits in early 2017.
These teams included more than 350 people from 25 countries, ranging from
undergraduate students to industry professionals. The Duke team is joined in
the finals by just one other university-based team, from Texas A&M. Both
student teams will be competing against teams formed by industry professionals
in Germany, Switzerland, Japan, Portugal, England and the United States.

The Blue Devil Ocean Engineering team has taken an unusual tactic—several
undergraduate classes were formed at the start of the competition to begin
work on the project. While a handful of graduate students and undergraduate
students working through independent studies have been able to stick with the
project since its inception, most of the work being done each year is by an
entirely new set of students. This means that few of the students finishing
the competition this fall will have been the ones who started it in 2016.

"Each year there's a bit of a slowdown as the new students come up to speed on
the project. But at the same time, they come in with fresh ideas and a lot of
energy," said Doug Nowacek, the Randolph K. Repass and Sally-Christine Rodgers
University Associate Professor of Conservation Technology in Duke's Nicholas
School of the Environment and Pratt School of Engineering.

Duke's approach is to use giant heavy-lifting drones to deploy and retrieve a
series of sonar-equipped sensors that are lowered from floating platforms at
the ocean's surface. This is much more difficult than it sounds.

The drones must autonomously navigate gusting winds and waves that average six
meters in height while dropping off and retrieving the sensors. The floating
sensor platforms must carry at least 3,500 meters of cable to lower and then
pull up the sensor pods, making them extremely heavy for the drones to carry.
The sensor pods themselves must withstand the pressure, temperature and
salinity of the ocean's depths. And to successfully map the area required, the
team must deploy multiple drones making multiple drop-offs and pick-ups, and
then seamlessly analyze all of the data.

To advance to the final round, the semifinalist teams had to pass a Round 1
Technology Readiness Test, which comprised site visits to each team by XPRIZE
staff and judges. The teams were tested against 11 measurement criteria to
show their technological solutions were capable of meeting the operational
requirements necessary for rapid, unmanned and high-resolution ocean mapping
and discovery.

When the judges visited Duke, they saw a team with all of its components in
place. The team has built and flown a heavy-lift drone in Duke Forest. They
have sensor pods that have been tested at the Duke University Marine
Laboratory in Beaufort, North Carolina. They have software to analyze the
resulting data. The combination was enough to move them into the final round
of competition.

As the school year draws to a close, more than 50 students are now working to
finalize their design. More rotors are being added to the drone to make sure
it can lift the heavy sensor pods. Control software is being smoothed so that
the drone can pick up the pods while using as little energy as possible. And
the sensor pods themselves are receiving upgrades to increase their range so
that fewer drops are needed to cover the area required in the final stage of
competition.

"Our goal is to get this project to the point where all the next group of
students need to do is build more of the drones and sensors that we've already
completed," said William Willis, a junior studying mechanical engineering who
plans to continue participating during his senior year.

"We want to demonstrate a full cycle of dropping off a sensor, mapping an area
and picking it up before graduation in May," added Nick Lockett, a senior
studying electrical engineering.

The team hopes to get some help assembling more units over the summer from
high school students brought in by Tyler Bletsch, assistant professor of the
practice of electrical and computer engineering at Duke, who has also been
instrumental to the project. Whether or not they are successful in either
their short-term goals or the final competition, the massive, long-term
project has been valuable for everyone involved.

"This project has given us a chance to work on electrical engineering problems
in a real-world setting," said Krista Opsahl-Ong, also a senior studying
electrical engineering. "And I don't mean just from a science perspective.
We've had to work with a huge team with a lot of moving parts. It's forced us
to segment our work and keep track of a lot of parallel projects. And of
course it's been a ton of fun to actually get our hands dirty."

The nine finalist teams will be formally recognized and awarded at Oceanology
International's Catch the Next Wave conference in London on March 15.
Attending the event for the Duke University team will be Brooke and graduating
senior Sam Kelly—one of the few undergraduate students who has worked on the
project since its inception. The final Round 2 testing will take place during
October and November of 2018.

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

