

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Retinal Texture Could Provide Early Biomarker Of Alzheimer’s Disease

May 14, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

New imaging technique combines two technologies to spot early warning signs of
Alzehimer’s disease in mice

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have devised a new imaging device
capable of measuring both the thickness and texture of the various layers of
the retina at the back of the eye. The advance could be used to detect a
biomarker of Alzheimer’s disease, potentially offering a widespread early
warning system for the disease.

The results appear online on May 13 in the journal Scientific Reports.

“Previous research has seen a thinning of the retina in Alzheimer’s patients,
but by adding a light-scattering technique to the measurement, we’ve found
that the retinal nerve fiber layer is also rougher and more disordered,” said
Adam Wax, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “Our hope is that we
can use this insight to create an easy and cheap screening device that
wouldn’t only be available at your doctor’s office, but at places like your
local pharmacy as well.”

Diagnoses of Alzheimer’s disease are currently only made after a patient
begins to show symptoms of cognitive decline. Even then, the only way to
definitively determine that Alzheimer’s was the cause is with expensive MRI
and PET scans or through an autopsy. But if disease progress can be halted
through early interventions such as drugs and mental exercise, patients can
have a greatly improved quality of life. This is why researchers are looking
for biomarkers that could be used as early warning signs of the disease.

One such potential biomarker comes from the retina, which is literally an
extension of the brain and part of the central nervous system. Previous
research has shown that Alzheimer’s can cause structural changes to the
retina, most notably a thinning of the inner retinal layers.

“The retina can provide easy access to the brain, and its thinning can be
indicative of a decrease in the amount of neural tissue, which can mean that
Alzheimer’s is present,” said Wax.

Other diseases such as glaucoma and Parkinson’s disease, however, can also
cause a thinning of the retina. Inconsistent test results might also come from
differences between the machines most often used for these types of
measurements, optical coherence tomography (OCT) devices, and how researchers
use them.

In the new paper, Wax and his graduate student Ge Song show that the topmost
layer of neurons in the retina of a mouse model of Alzheimer’s disease exhibit
a change in their structural texture. Combined with data on the changes in
thickness of this layer, the new measurement could prove to be a more easily
accessible biomarker of Alzheimer’s.

“Our new approach can measure the roughness or texture of the nerve fiber
layer of the inner retina,” said Song. “It can provide a quick and direct way
to measure structural changes caused by Alzheimer’s, which has great potential
as a biomarker of the disease.”

OCT is the optical analogue of ultrasound. It works by sending waves of light
into tissues and measuring how long they take to come back. While it is an
extremely useful imaging technique commonly used to make a wide array of
diagnoses, it has limitations.

To gather more data, Wax and Song added a measurement called angle-resolved
low-coherence interferometry (a/LCI), which uses the angles of the scattered
light to gather more information about the tissue’s structure. By combining
the two measurements, the researchers can extract both thickness and
structural information about each layer of the retina.

“The a/LCI measurements complement the thickness measurements to improve the
potential utility of more quantitative biomarkers for Alzheimer's,” said Song.
“You can’t get textural and structural information about the retina with OCT
alone. You need both imaging modalities. That’s the key innovation.”

The researchers are now working to incorporate this added ability into a low-
cost OCT system that Wax is developing through a spinoff company called
Lumedica. While traditional OCT machines weigh more than 60 pounds, take up an
entire desk and cost anywhere between $50,000 and $120,000, Wax’s design
weighs four pounds, is about the size of a lunch box and, Wax expects, will be
sold for less than $15,000.

The key to Wax’s design is a 3D-printed part that uses symmetry to compensate
for mechanical inconsistencies that can arise in traditional OCT devices
because of things as small as a subtle shift in temperature. Song also has
been working on a 3D-printed rotational prism, allowing the a/LCI to scan the
entire retina.

“We’re excited because this research shows a new way of using low-cost OCT
technologies outside of simply screening for traditional retinal diseases,”
said Wax. “If we can use these devices as a window into early signs of
neurodegenerative diseases, maybe we can help people get into an early
intervention treatment program before it’s too late.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R21AG056245,
P30EY005722).

CITATION: “Multimodal Coherent Imaging of Retinal Biomarkers of Alzheimer’s
Disease in a Mouse Model,” Ge Song, Zachary A. Steelman, Stella Finkelstein,
Ziyun Yang, Ludovic Martin, Kengyeh K. Chu, Sina Farsiu, Vadim Y. Arshavsky,
Adam Wax. Scientific Reports, May 13, 2020. DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-64827-2

## Related News

November 12, 2019

### Low-Cost, Portable System Takes OCT Beyond Ophthalmology

June 28, 2019

### Low-Cost Retinal Scanner Could Help Prevent Blindness Worldwide

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

