

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Padilla, Brown Elected Fellow of the American Physical Society

September 25, 2018

Two Duke engineers are recognized for their roles in developing dynamic
metamaterials and devices as well as quantum control and quantum error-
correction routines

Willie Padilla, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke
University, and Kenneth Brown, associate professor of electrical and computer
engineering, chemistry, and physics, have been elected Fellows of the American
Physical Society.

Upon the recommendation of the APS Division of Laser Science. Padilla was
cited for, “co-discovery of negative refractive index, the development of
dynamic metamaterials and devices, and the development and understanding of
metamaterial and metasurface absorbers in the microwave, terahertz and
infrared ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum.”

A metamaterial is an artificial material that manipulates waves like light and
sound through properties of its structure rather than its chemistry.
Researchers can design these materials to have rare or unnatural properties,
like the ability to absorb specific ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum or
to bend light backward.

Padilla worked on the original split-ring resonators that first demonstrated
the abilities of metamaterials at UC San Diego in the early 2000s. After
spending several years at Boston College, he rejoined several of his UC San
Diego colleagues in 2014 who had since formed a prominent metamaterials group
at Duke Engineering.

Since then, Padilla has worked on several lines of basic research exploring
what these materials are capable of, particularly in the terahertz regime of
the electromagnetic spectrum. Some examples include streamlined infrared
sensors, metal-free metamaterials that can absorb electromagnetic energy
without heating up, and dynamically tunable metamaterials that can quickly
change properties on a sub-millimeter scale.

Brown was cited for “the development of quantum control and quantum error-
correction routines and the experimental implementation of these ideas in
trapped atomic ion qubits and molecular ions” upon the recommendation of the
APS Division of Quantum Information.

For the past several years, Brown has been working with colleagues at Duke to
combine their experimental progress made toward robust quantum computing
hardware with his theoretical work aimed at getting the most out of that
hardware possible. The end goal is to develop the world’s first practical
quantum computer, which could solve complex problems such as encryption or
models of chemical reactions on a molecular level much more efficiently than
traditional computers.

The technology being pursued to accomplish this uses trapped ions—atoms with
electrons stripped away to give it a positive electric charge. That charge
allows researchers to suspend ultra-cooled atoms using an electromagnetic
field in an ultra-high vacuum, where precise lasers manipulate their quantum
states. Brown’s work in this realm of quantum technology has focused on the
theoretical and numerical work needed to make quantum logic gates more
reliable and robust by reducing their error rates.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

