

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Path for Post-Grad Success

October 24, 2018

An industry-focused BME Design Fellowship prepares students for jobs after
graduation

At the end of each academic year, Marc Sommer, the director of undergraduate
studies, and Elizabeth (Libby) Bucholz, the associate director of
undergraduate studies, organize a town hall for graduating seniors from Duke
University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering. Over soda and pizza,
students are encouraged to discuss their experiences in the BME program––both
good and bad––with their advisors and peers. The town hall is one of the last
events students attend during their undergraduate career, and Bucholz and
Sommer aim to use their feedback to determine how the department can evolve to
best serve the needs of the students.

While the discussions cover a range of topics, one constant point has emerged
over the years: students want a program tailored toward industry experience.

“It was clear that seniors who wanted to go to medical school or graduate
school felt adequately prepared after graduation, but there was a large group
of students who wanted to go into industry, and they didn’t feel like they had
all the skills they needed to be competitive job candidates,” says Bucholz.
“We didn’t think that was acceptable, so we quickly started planning for ways
to address the problem.”

The result, launched in fall 2017, is the BME Design Fellows pathway—an
intensive design program expressly for BME juniors interested in jobs in
industry after graduation. Modeled after Duke Engineering’s successful Pratt
Undergraduate Research Fellows program, the BME Design Fellows program spans
three semesters and includes a guaranteed summer internship at a biotech
company in nearby Research Triangle Park or at Duke University Medical Center.

“Students who are interested in medical school or graduate school will often
enroll in the Pratt Research Fellows for intensive research experience, but
there wasn’t an equivalent for students who would be applying for jobs,” says
professor of the practice Mark Palmeri. “The BME Design Fellows program allows
us to fill that gap. If students are looking to diversify their engineering
skillset and build up their resume, this new option tees them up nicely.”

In fact, students in the BME Design Fellows program graduate with nearly two
solid years of design experience. They start in the spring of junior year with
a design fundamentals course taught by Duke BME’s Kevin Caves. During the
summer they work at their chosen internship for at least 10 weeks, followed by
a two-semester design course of their choosing senior year.

While students in Duke BME’s Master of Engineering program are required to
complete an internship to earn their degree, the BME Design Fellows is the
first program that provides undergraduate students with a similar opportunity.
In addition to gaining practical work experience, they learn how to prepare
and go through the technical interview process.

“I had students come to me saying they felt like they didn’t know anything and
weren’t sure what they could say during an interview, and they learned that it
wasn’t an accurate perception because the companies were very excited to hire
them,” says Bucholz. “The first class of Design Fellows got valuable first-
hand interview experience, and they selected internships at local companies
like MicroElastic or Blur that really excited them.”

Now, with the first class of 13 design fellows entering their senior year,
Bucholz and Palmeri hope the program grows to allow for an even stronger
immersive design experience. As more students participate, they also aim to
create a strong community of fellows that can act as a professional network as
graduates enter the workplace.

“The BME Design Fellows program has given us the experience we need to be
successful in graduate school, industry, and starting our own companies,” says
Deepthi Nacharaju, a student in the first cohort of design fellows. “We not
only gain essential skills, but also a great network in each other and with
industry professionals. All of these opportunities made me really interested
in applying for this program, and I’m excited to welcome a new cohort of
students as the program continues this year.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

