

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jian Pei: Developing Fair and Transparent Applications for Advances in Data
Science

May 20, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Jian Pei connects data science research to real-world
applications with an eye on efficiency, fairness and transparency

Jian Pei will join the faculty of the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering in Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering beginning July 1,
2022. An expert in developing the connections between data science and real-
world applications, Pei is not only enthusiastic about gleaning useful
insights from troves of data, but doing so in ways that are fair and
transparent to all.

Pei shares joint appointments at Duke in the Department of Computer Science
and the Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics. He joins the three
departments from Simon Fraser University, where he has been a professor of
computing science since 2004. He also earned his PhD in computing science from
Simon Fraser in 2002 after earning undergraduate and master’s degrees in the
field from Shanghai Jiao Tong University.

“Data scientists have to be able to build programs with the ability to learn
on the fly and communicate complex results from many different applications to
stakeholders and users,” Pei said. “And it is important for data scientists to
connect people with data in ways that they can understand and that contribute
to society and do social good.”

As the discipline of data science has exploded over the past decades, it has
become more difficult to name fields that it hasn’t impacted than those that
it has. But as advanced concepts like data mining and applied artificial
intelligence become a normal part of more aspects of society, it is becoming
increasingly important to make sure they are used in equitable and unbiased
ways.

Pei has spent the better part of the past two decades doing just that in a
wide variety of fields. His work touches on spatial data, medical data,
educational data, ecommerce, bioinformatics, data marketplaces and social
networks, just to name a few.

> “I’m a big advocate for diversity and fairness in education and training,
> and particularly for women and other underrepresented groups in science and
> engineering. We need to have more balance to make sure the entire field is
> healthy and productive.”
>
> jian pei

One example of Pei’s work comes in concert with one of the largest social
media platforms in the world, LinkedIn. Because executives tend to skew
male—especially in technology-related companies—the platform’s algorithms must
fight against any possible biases in the connections and opportunities they
present to men versus women. The company recently worked with Pei to examine
the bias in their data and correct it so that data propagation is fair amongst
all its users, no matter their race, gender or other characteristic.

Whatever the field and problem at hand, Pei sees opportunities to customize
existing techniques and invent new methods of collecting and parsing data.
Potential collaborators can then look to see if the newly applied tools and
techniques can be used to solve problems in their own research areas. He is
excited by the wealth of future industry collaborations available in the
Research Triangle, especially with the likes of Apple and Google set to soon
launch office locations in the area.

“I meet all different kinds of people at conventions and meetings, and I’m
always looking for opportunities to apply my work to new challenges,” Pei
said. “I also often work with professional graduate students who bring new
challenges from their businesses, which provides opportunities to then work
with their companies.”

Pei is passionate about teaching students of all ages and experience
levels—not just professional graduate students. He often teaches undergraduate
courses on the basics of data science, data mining and databases, and always
has a large cohort of PhD students—50% of which, he is proud to say, are
women.

“I’m a big advocate for diversity and fairness in education and training, and
particularly for women and other underrepresented groups in science and
engineering,” Pei said. “We need to have more balance to make sure the entire
field is healthy and productive.”

Besides the outdoor opportunities for jogging and mountain biking that the
Triangle area provides, Pei says he was drawn to Duke because of its strong
research teams in data science and opportunities for collaboration across
disciplines. He’s particularly excited to work with Cynthia Rudin, one of the
world’s leading proponents of creating interpretable machine learning
algorithms; Robert Calderbank, who runs many data-science-driven programs
through the Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke; and Yiran Chen, whose
recently launched Athena center focuses on leveraging AI and edge computing
technologies and next-generation networked systems in its quest to reimagine
future mobile devices.

“I think in the next 10 to 20 years, change is going to happen even faster
than it is now, and more dynamic versatility will be very important,” Pei
said. “Data science is a key to sense changes, understand dynamics and
strengthen versatility. Duke University will play an increasingly important
role in leading research, education and societal services, and I am very
excited to be part of it.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

