

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Petroski Named a Fellow of Sigma Xi

August 24, 2021

Henry Petroski was honored by “The Scientific Research Honor Society” for
distinguished accomplishments and engaging histories of bridges in American
Scientist

Henry Petroski, Aleksander S. Vesic Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Civil
Engineering at Duke University, has been named a fellow of Sigma Xi, The
Scientific Research Honor Society. Petroski joins 14 of his peers who comprise
the 2021 cohort and was cited “For distinguished accomplishments and for
engaging histories of bridges in the pages of _American Scientist_.”

Even as a graduate student at the University of Illinois at Urbana, Petroski
pursued a passion for writing, entering a student paper competition sponsored
by Sigma Xi and coming in third. As an engineer at Argonne National Laboratory
working on problems relating to the development and operation of liquid-metal
fast breeder reactors, he developed a broad interest in failure analysis and
began to write about issues in technology and society for newspapers and
magazines, including _MIT Technology Review_.

Petroski became an associate professor of civil engineering at Duke in 1980
and published his first book for the general reader, _To Engineer Is Human_ ,
in 1985. In the following three and a half decades, Petroski authored nearly
20 popular and critically acclaimed books that have earned him the reputation
as “America’s poet laureate of technology.” He also wrote regular columns for
_ASEE Prism_ magazine and _American Scientist_ , the latter in which his
“Engineering” column has run in every issue since 1990, totaling 188 in all.

“Throughout this time, I have had the pleasure of working with editors-in-
chief Brian Hayes, Rosalind Reid, David Schoonmaker, Fenella Saunders, and the
entire staff of the magazine,” Petroski said of his decades-long stint as a
columnist for _American Scientist_. “I get great pleasure writing about
bridges and other aspects of engineering design, and I thoroughly enjoy the
feedback I receive from Sigma Xi members and readers of the magazine."

Rate of Change · Of Potholes and Budget Holes

## Related News

February 16, 2016

### Henry Petroski: Insights on America's Road Taken

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

