

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Phoenix Project Delivers Data-Rich Summer Opportunities

August 10, 2020

When summer internships disappeared in a puff of smoke, Duke students rallied
to create meaningful experiences in data science and software engineering,
matching 210 students with projects at nearly 75 companies

The name of the project says it all.

By late spring of 2020, thanks to restrictions brought about by the COVID-19
pandemic, hundreds of Duke students’ carefully laid internship plans had gone
up in flames.

But there were many companies that still needed the students’ software
engineering and data science chops and could afford to pay them for their
work—so a team of Duke students busied themselves making matches between the
two parties, calling their effort the “Phoenix Project.”

This rise from the ashes was organized by the Duke Applied Machine Learning
Group, which was founded last year to connect student enthusiasts with real-
world projects. The group’s client-based approach was a good framework to hang
the Phoenix Project on, but it had to scale up—while the Duke Applied Machine
Learning Group has around 35 active members, nearly 350 graduate and
undergraduate students applied for spots in the Phoenix Project after learning
about it through Facebook groups, departmental emails or word-of-mouth.

> “Almost 20 members of the Duke Applied Machine Learning Group stepped up to
> this project and reached out to their personal networks, venture capital
> firms and different professional sites to reach as many potential clients as
> possible."
>
> Mary Gooneratne ECE/CS ‘21

“Almost 20 members of the Duke Applied Machine Learning Group stepped up to
this project and reached out to their personal networks, venture capital firms
and different professional sites to reach as many potential clients as
possible,” said Mary Gooneratne ‘21, who is majoring in electrical and
computer engineering and computer science. “About 150 enthusiastic companies,
including several with Duke founders, had reached out via our Google form by
the time we were matching students to projects.”

Seventy-four of those companies offered internships to 210 students this
summer. The students formed small teams around dozens of projects ranging from
precision warfarin dosing to predicting battery life cycles, and just about
everything in between. Large companies including Twitter, Coursera, and the US
Department of Defense were among the Phoenix Project’s clients, as were
startups, public service companies and university research labs that were
loosely grouped into six areas of focus: Health, Environment & Data; Finance &
Data; IoT/Electronics; Education; Government & Data; and Venture, B2B & Data.

By the end of their ten-week internships, students had not only learned to
build a tech product for their clients from scratch, but also got experience
working with remote teams, creating pitch decks and presenting to online
audiences. The audience at their final presentations on August 5 included
their clients and other industry representatives, as well as Duke faculty,
staff and students.

> By the end of their ten-week internships, students had not only learned to
> build a tech product for their clients from scratch, but also got experience
> working with remote teams, creating pitch decks and presenting to online
> audiences.

Arushi Bhatia ’23, a computer science and linguistics student, worked on a
project for Black Fire Ventures, a global startup funding source for platform
business and socially responsible investing.

“Our task was to devise a technological solution to restore trust in
journalism,” said Bhatia.

Unfazed by the challenge of solving one of the most pressing social problems
of our time, Bhatia and her teammates got to work, researching key problems
facing journalism and consulting experts including Mark Stencel from the Duke
Reporters’ Lab.

“We decided to move forward with devising a way to automate fact-checking,”
said Bhatia. The team’s platform connects readers to articles that are fact-
checked via blockchain and assigned a “truth score.” The higher the score, the
higher the story appears in the reader’s feed.

Though no one in the team had participated in a fully remote internship
before, and though the team never met in person, they completed their project
without any major roadblocks. “Making sure to stick to defined team schedules,
communicate clearly, develop friendships and manage team conflicts is not easy
to do virtually, but it did make us more adaptable,” said Bhatia.

With support from Black Fire Ventures, the team is planning to join an
accelerator that will help them develop their project further. “Our team did
truly amazing work,” said Bhatia. “The client’s team was really happy with how
the project has grown so far and what its future prospects look like.”

Gooneratne said that many of the project’s partner companies, including the
DoD, have reached out to discuss continuing the summer’s work, and many of the
Phoenix Project members have applied to Duke Applied Machine Learning to
continue application-based learning through the semester.

The Phoenix Project also partnered with Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship
(EngEn)’s new Product Lab.

“We pledged financial support to the Phoenix Project early on, and we felt
that Product Lab could be a good way to support the program,” said Steven
McClelland, EngEn’s Executive-in-Residence. Phoenix Project participants who
enrolled in the four-week Product Lab were awarded a small stipend and got an
overview of the product management role by evaluating products in different
sectors and discussing them with their peers. “The hope is that by learning to
critique products, they will have more insight into building better products,”
said McClelland.

More News from Duke Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

