

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Physics of Life: The Evolution of Everything

May 20, 2016

Adrian Bejan's new book breaks down the driving forces behind the movement and
flow of everything in nature

To live or not to live, that is not even a question.

So begins the new book penned by Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of
Mechanical Engineering at Duke University. Titled "The Physics of Life: The
Evolution of Everything," the book arrives on shelves on May 24, 2016. And
while the question of living is not up for debate, the question that Bejan
does answer in the book is simply, "What is life, as physics?"

In his new book, Bejan breaks down the driving forces behind the movement and
flow of everything in nature. This seems like a beefy topic to take on, but
Bejan is able to break down every day patterns and familiar concepts while he
eloquently explains how we are all connected. From life span and population
growth to air traffic and government expansion, evolution is everywhere, and
the same principles of physics can be applied to all things.

Bejan is the developer of the constructal law of physics, on which the book is
based, which breaks down the patterns of design and evolution in nature that
is explained in "The Physics of Life" along with other concepts for the
curious and academic alike such as:

  * How every natural entity has freedom to change
  * How the evolution of technology is no different than animal evolution
  * Why the world is not running out of energy and water
  * How life unites the inanimate realm with the animate realm
  * The sharp proportionality between fuel consumption and “wealth”
  * All evolution is mandatory

One of the physical aspects that Bejan touches upon is that all things in
nature search for power. Not only animals and humans, but even inanimate
objects need more power. Power could mean different things depending on the
circumstance, but it is power that encompasses everything in nature’s needs.

"A revolutionary new way to understand the world around us—from the natural
sphere to the human body to political and cultural institutions—based on
author Bejan's unique insights into the science of physics," said New York
Times bestselling author Jeffery Deaver.

Bejan is one of the world's leading academics on energy science
(thermodynamics). He has achieved this status through a relentless and highly
influential stream of creative work and doctoral student advising at Duke and
all over the world. He has written leading books on thermal sciences for
graduate-level education in English worldwide. He also has a strong and
permanent following in the U.S. and abroad, making him a global professor, and
speaks several languages. His global influence is confirmed by his 17 honorary
doctorates from universities in 11 countries, and he has given two TED
lectures.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

