

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Using Good Governance to Mitigate Natural Disasters

December 18, 2017 | by Colin Colter, Duke Federal Relations

Policy, not technology, can reduce the impact of climate-change-intensified
disasters

_From Duke Today  
_

What makes a community vulnerable to climate change-intensified natural
disasters is not any dearth of technology but a lack of good governance,
according to a panel of experts speaking at a roundtable discussion at Duke in
DC.

Duke Associate Professor Mark Borsuk and Director of Climate Resilience at the
World Resources Institute (WRI) Christina Chan explored issues facing
municipal, state and federal governments still reeling from a season of
natural disasters. Moderated by Vox climate reporter Umair Irfan, the panel
debated definitions, attribution and responses to the next generation of
climate policy and how to construct adaptive societies.

Borsuk’s work at Duke devises a risk analysis of climate change and applies
financial risk-reward models to climate-affected investments, such as
insurance markets and urban development. Chan participated in the US
delegation to the Paris Climate Accord negotiations while at the State
Department. Now at the World Resources Institute (WRI), Chan focuses on the
funding and implementation of international agreements.

“Some of our work at WRI,” said Chan “is looking at where money is coming from
and is it actually being channeled to the poorest and most vulnerable,
addressing community priorities or is it lining pockets?”

Chan underscored the importance of good governance in any sustainable climate
change policy. Many of the underlying causes that make communities vulnerable
to natural disasters are human-made inequalities and a failure of responsive
government. Although much of Chan’s work is international and pertains to
developing nations, her assessment drew parallels with Borsuk’s work on risk
analysis models in the United States.

After every natural disaster, there is typically a call from the public for
Congress and local governments to provide relief aid. Borsuk said that instead
of having an immediate political response where the scope of the damage hasn’t
been properly appreciated, the government should assemble a financial recovery
plan based on advance planning to quickly put into action.

“There needs to be an advance plan for how these things get covered. There’s
an urgency to get money out the door and into people’s hands, and that doesn’t
always lead to the most cost-effective or resilience effective kinds of
planning,” Borsuk said.

The government could assemble a formula where the scope of natural disaster
damages meets a certain threshold, suggested Borsuk, and the government pays
for that percentage of the damages while local government makes up the rest.
This method would allow the federal government to quickly quantify the
immediate costs of a disaster and provide relief.

“If these disasters are happening all the time,” Borsuk said, “then they can’t
be handled on a case-by-case basis.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

