

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Population Could Outpace Water by Mid-Century

March 31, 2015 | By Tim Lucas

Technological advances will be needed in coming decades to avoid water
shortages.

Population growth could cause global demand for water to outpace supply by
mid-century if current levels of consumption continue. But it wouldn't be the
first time this has happened, a Duke University study finds.

Using a delayed-feedback mathematical model that analyzes historic data to
help project future trends, the researchers identified a regularly recurring
pattern of global water use in recent centuries. Periods of increased demand
for water -- often coinciding with population growth or other major
demographic and social changes -- were followed by periods of rapid innovation
of new water technologies that helped end or ease any shortages.

Based on this recurring pattern, the model predicts a similar period of
innovation could occur in coming decades.

“Researchers in other fields have previously used this model to predict
earthquakes and other complex processes, including events like the boom and
bust of the stock market during financial crises, but this is the first time
it’s been applied to water use,” said Anthony Parolari, postdoctoral research
associate in civil and environmental engineering at Duke, who led the new
study.

“What the model shows us is that there will likely be a new phase of change in
the global water supply system by the mid-21st century,” Parolari said.

“This could take the form of a gradual move toward new policies that encourage
a sustainable rate of water use, or it could be a technological advancement
that provides a new source of water for us to tap into. There’s a range of
possibilities,” he said.

Data on global water use shows we are currently in a period of relatively
stagnant growth, he said. Per-capita water use has been declining since 1980,
largely due to improved efficiency measures and heightened public awareness of
the importance of conserving Earth’s limited supply of freshwater. This has
helped offset the impacts of recent population growth.

“But if population growth trends continue, per-capita water use will have to
decline even more sharply for there to be enough water to meet demand,” he
said. The world’s population is projected to surge to 9.6 billion by 2050, up
from an estimated 7 billion today.

“For every new person who is born, how much more water can we supply? The
model suggests we may reach a tipping point where efficiency measures are no
longer sufficient and water scarcity either impacts population growth or
pushes us to find new water supplies,” Parolari said.

Water recycling, and finding new and better ways to remove salt from seawater,
are among the more likely technological advances that could help alleviate or
avoid future water shortages, he said.

Parolari was inspired to conduct his study by the work of Austrian physicist
and philosopher Heinz von Foerster, who in 1960 collaborated with students to
publish a tongue-in-cheek study in the journal Science predicting that through
feedbacks between human demographics and technological development, population
growth would overcome any limitation imposed on it by finite resources and
become infinite by November 13, 2026 – the 115th anniversary of von Foerster’s
birthday. The prediction became known as the Doomsday Equation.

“Historically, many hypotheses about future population and resource trends
have been pessimistic. Von Foerster’s hypothesis poked fun at these
projections. But the serious part of his study provided an alternative and
exciting view of the future: Humans are creative and resourceful, and when
push comes to shove, we find new ways to either increase our supply or use
what we have more efficiently,” Parolari said. “Our model supports this more
optimistic outlook. The demand for water will push us to innovate as it has
repeatedly done before.”

Parolari and his colleagues published their study this month in the peer-
reviewed journal Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Water. His co-authors on the
new commentary were Gabriel G. Katul, Theodore S. Coile Professor of hydrology
and micrometeorology at Duke’s Nicholas School of the Environment, and
Amilcare Porporato, Addy Professor of civil and environmental engineering at
the Nicholas School and Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering.

Primary funding for the study came from the National Science Foundation
(#EAR-1033467), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (#2011-67003-30222); and
the U.S. Department of Energy (#DE-SC0006967).

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

