

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pratt Engineers Awarded Four Department of Defense Grants

June 18, 2013 | by Richard Merritt

These highly sought-after grants from the MURI program are designed to promote
basic research conducted by consortiums of universities.

From transparent conductors to acoustic cloaking in water to undersea sensing,
scientists at Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering have been rewarded
for their novel research by being involved in four of 15 large grants recently
awarded by the federal government.

These highly sought-after grants, from the Department of Defense’s
Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI) program, are designed
to promote basic research conducted by consortiums of universities. All four
of the Duke projects received support from the Office of Naval Research, and
three of the four projects involve scientists in Pratt’s Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE). Each project is funded for five
years at an average rate of $1.5 million annually.

Two of the projects will be led by Duke researchers: Stefano Curtarolo,
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science and director of the
Center for Materials Genomics, and Steven Cummer, professor of electrical and
computer engineering. Curtarolo’s grant totals $8.6 million; Cummer’s project
is supported by $7.5 million.

Curtarolo’s goal is to come up with novel combinations of elements with unique
properties that can help relieve the dependence on so-called “rare-earth”
minerals, which are essential to many high-technology applications. Many of
these minerals are scarce, expensive and can be located in politically
sensitive areas.

“We want to come with new materials not so much based on their composition,
but their functionality,” Curtarolo said. “Ideally, we’d like to come up with
materials that can be conductive as well as transparent.”

Curtarolo’s team has developed a “cookbook” that allows scientists to mix and
match different elements, depending on the properties desired. A good portion
of the grant will go toward adding computational power to handle the massive
calculations needed to come up with new materials. Other institutions involved
are Brigham Young University, University of North Texas, Central Michigan
University and University of Maryland.

Cummer works in metamaterials, which are man-made constructs that have
properties unseen in natural materials. Duke researchers have already
pioneered metamaterial “cloaking” devices for many types of waves. Cummer’s
project focuses on acoustic waves.

“Acoustic metamaterials are useful not only for hiding objects but for making
better devices for generating, sensing and manipulating sound,” Cummer said.
“While the results of our research could help in such areas as better
acoustics in auditoriums or concert halls, the Navy is keenly interested in
applying these approaches in marine environments.”

Other institutions involved include Rutgers University, University of
California at Berkley, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and University of
Texas at Austin.

The third MURI grant, which is led by the University of Illinois - Urbana-
Champaign, involves Duke’s Jungsang Kim, associate professor of ECE, physics
and computer science, and Dan Gauthier, Robert C. Richardson Professor of
Physics and also an ECE faculty member.

The Duke portion of the project involves using quantum physics to develop a
secure means of transmitting and receiving messages underwater. After
developing the detector technology, the team plans to test it at the Duke
University Marine Lab in Beaufort, N.C. Other institutions involved include
the University of Arizona and Boston University.

The fourth MURI, led by researchers from the University of California,
involves analyzing the informational content of noise in the ocean, both from
a theoretical and experimental basis. Pratt’s Jeff Krolik, ECE professor and
expert in how acoustic waves propagate in the ocean, will head up Duke’s
efforts.

The other institutions are Georgia Institute of Technology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and Portland State University.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

