

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Pratt Pouch: A Duke innovation Treats HIV in the Developing World

April 6, 2014 | By Aaron Newman

The pouch, comparable in size and shape to a ketchup packet, preserves
medication

_Originally published in DukEngineer_

Not all problems require a complex solution. In fact, when addressing problems
in the developing world, the best solutions are often the most basic. This
trend arises from the importance of an advancement’s ability to be reproduced
and managed locally, which, in resource-poor settings, often translates to
simplicity.

Robert Malkin, a professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University and
the founder of Engineering World Health (EWH) and the Global Public Service
Academies (GPSA), understands this fact well.

In his most recent work, Malkin and his research team at the Developing World
Healthcare Technology Laboratory (DHT-Lab) have used this methodology in
designing a novel approach to the problem of mother-to-child HIV transmission
in developing countries. During the 24 hours after birth, a baby born to an
HIV-positive mother is at high risk, a roughly 15 to 45 percent chance
according to the World Health Organization (WHO), of contracting HIV. It is
during this brief window that treatment with antiretroviral drugs is vital to
minimize the chances of transmission. In resource-poor settings, however, a
vast majority of women give birth at home and have limited access to proper
medication, which, until recently, could not be effectively stored in a non-
medical environment.

All of the common mechanisms for transporting medicine—spoon, dropper, cup and
syringe—“destroy the medication, leaving the mother without any of the
standard choices available,” explains Malkin. In this way, “we are solving a
problem for which there is no other alternative.”

Through a number of experiments conducted at the lab, it was concluded that
the inability to preserve the medication for long periods of time was not a
result of preservation loss but rather absorption of water by the packaging
itself. To counter this dehydration, the team, consisting primarily of
undergraduate and graduate students, designed the Pratt Pouch. This storage
device, named in recognition of Duke’s engineering school, has a minimized
amount of plastic among other features that prevent significant water loss in
the medication.

Now in its third generation, the pouch, comparable in size to a ketchup
packet, has experienced a number of changes in dimension and material and now
consists of five distinct layers. Looking toward continued development, Malkin
comments, “The design of a medical device is never finished. Materials change.
Manufacturers come and go. Just like any medical device, [the pouch] needs to
evolve.”

The pouch is undergoing clinical trials in Ecuador, Tanzania and Zambia, and
has received unanimous approval from participants with “all mothers saying
they would use the pouch…even in a situation where they could potentially use
one of the alternative methods,” reports Malkin…”. In addition, the team has
received enthusiastic feedback from distributing hospitals that report being
able to better avoid “stock out problems,” which result from having to give
the entire bottle of antiretroviral medication instead of just the required
portion, be it one-third or one-half of the bottle. Malkin and those involved
with the pouch’s development are optimistic about these results and their
implications for the eventual integration of the device, but remain aware of
the obstacles that will need to be overcome before the pouch becomes
commonplace in developing-world hospitals.

“Certainly funding is the big problem. We are mostly targeting HIV-positive
mothers who deliver at home,” Malkin said. “They don’t have very much money,
so realistically, there is no profit to be made in the product.”

This limitation, which Malkin acknowledges as being common of medical devices
intended for the developing world, has resulted in the early development being
highly grant dependent thus far. Compounding this lack of buying power is the
public health community’s nearly exclusive support of proven technologies as
opposed to those in early stages of development. Malkin refers to this
combination as the “perfect storm of lack of opportunity.” Despite the
forecast, the Pratt Pouch has already earned a number of accolades from the
international health community that include being named by the World Health
Organization as one of 10 of the most innovative products of 2012 and a
nomination to receive a seed grant from the Saving Lives at Birth Challenge.

Looking toward the coming years, the veteran engineer states confidently, “My
hope is that we can do enough work for 2015 to get our first major orders from
the big players in the field.

“I think we can do it.”

_Aaron Newman is a Pratt freshman majoring in electrical and computer
engineering_.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

