

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Programming Cell Behavior

October 31, 2019 | By Mary-Russell Roberson

With work spanning gene circuits, antibiotic resistance and the mathematical
modeling of cellular networks, Lingchong You explores how to best to harness
microbes for medical purposes

When Lingchong You earned his PhD in chemical engineering in 2002, synthetic
biology was in its infancy. Yet he was drawn to the field right away.

“Synthetic biology to me is just like programming,” You says. “Every cell is
like a computer. In this case the code is in the form of DNA.”

You had spent years building mathematical models of viral infection in
graduate school and was ready to do some experiments with living cells. As a
postdoctoral researcher in the Caltech lab of Frances Arnold (who won a Nobel
Prize last year), he dove into gene circuit design, which involves
manipulating the genes of microbes so they will perform a desired function,
like producing pharmaceuticals or biofuel.

“I just fell in love with this type of research, integrating both mathematical
modeling and experiments,” he says. “As an engineer, you cannot get more
‘engineering’ than this! You introduce stuff into cells and look at how they
behave and even predict how they will behave.”

Today, as a professor in Duke’s Department of Biomedical Engineering, You
studies and manipulates the dynamics of microbial communities with the goal of
developing practical applications in medicine and other fields.

One of his areas of research involves the growing problem of antibiotic
resistance.

“We’re facing this antibiotic resistance crisis and there is a huge innovation
gap in terms of lack of development of new antibiotics,” You says. “In my
view, in the foreseeable future we have to deal with the situation by using
the existing antibiotics in a more clever way.”

He and members of his lab have shown that pathogens can pass small bits of DNA
that confer antibiotic resistance back and forth among themselves. These DNA
bits are called plasmids, and they get shared in a process called horizontal
gene transfer.

In a recent project, You analyzed hundreds of bacterial pathogens that show
resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics such as penicillin and its cousins. He
found that at least 25 percent of the pathogens can transfer resistance among
themselves via horizontal gene transfer. In other words, a cell that has never
been exposed to an antibiotic can still contain the plasmid that confers
resistance to it. Furthermore, horizontal gene transfer happens rapidly enough
to keep the plasmid in circulation in a microbial community, even though its
presence is costly to an individual cell in the absence of an antibiotic.
“That’s why it’s so difficult to eliminate this antibiotic resistance,” You
says. “We’re trying to understand how you can control the plasmid dynamics.”

You and his students have engineered a synthetic plasmid that can replace the
antibiotic-resistant plasmids in bacteria. The idea is that the synthetic
plasmid, or something like it, could one day be given as a supplemental
medicine along with a beta-lactam antibiotic. If antibiotic-resistant plasmids
are present, the synthetic plasmid will spring into action to replace and
eliminate them, leaving the door open for the antibiotic to kill the
pathogenic cells. Once the antibiotic-resistant plasmids are gone, the
synthetic ones become inactive.

“This is one example of synthetic biology where we designed a genetic program
to control cell behavior,” You says.

He is working on several other aspects of antibiotic resistance as well. In
collaboration with Deverick Anderson, an infectious disease physician in the
Department of Medicine, he described the dynamics of a microbial community
that is resistant in the face of antibiotic treatment, and compared that to
the dynamics in a “resilient” community—one that appears to be resistant but
is not. The researchers showed in the lab how a resilient community can be
knocked out with first-line antibiotics by using a customized strategy of
timing and dosing.

You is also active in another branch of synthetic biology—programming microbes
to build patterns or structures. “Look at nature,” he says. “Nature gives us
all these living functional materials. I grew into this shape from a single
cell. If you think about that, it’s quite amazing. As an engineer, I wonder
how can we do something like this?”

In one project, You and colleagues engineered bacteria such that they
spontaneously grew into dome shapes. When provided with gold nanoparticles,
the bacteria incorporated them into the structures. The researchers then used
a pair of these conductive domes to create a pressure sensor in an electrical
circuit.

“This is the first time anyone has built a structure in a predictable manner
using living cells that carry out a specific function,” You says.

You’s research projects may seem wide-ranging, but they are all driven by the
same questions: how do microbial communities behave in space and time, and how
can those behaviors be modified?

“Deep down I’m very curious,” You says. “It’s incredibly, incredibly
fascinating to me—all of this.”  

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

