

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gel-Like, Radioactive Implant Obliterates Pancreatic Cancer in Mice

October 20, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Combination of internal radiation and chemotherapy dissolves tumors in 80
percent of mice across multiple models

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated the most effective
treatment for pancreatic cancer ever recorded in mouse models. While most
mouse trials consider simply halting growth a success, the new treatment
completely eliminated tumors in 80 percent of mice across several model types,
including those considered the most difficult to treat.

The approach combines traditional chemotherapy drugs with a new method for
irradiating the tumor. Rather than delivering radiation from an external beam
that travels through healthy tissue, the treatment implants radioactive
iodine-131 directly into the tumor within a gel-like depot that protects
healthy tissue and is absorbed by the body after the radiation fades away.

The results appear online October 19 in the journal Nature Biomedical
Engineering.

“We did a deep dive through over 1,100 treatments across preclinical models
and never found results where the tumors shrank away and disappeared like ours
did,” said Jeff Schaal, who conducted the research during his PhD study in the
laboratory of Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor
of Biomedical Engineering at Duke. “When the rest of the literature is saying
that what we’re seeing doesn’t happen, that’s when we knew we had something
extremely interesting.”

> “When the rest of the literature is saying that what we’re seeing doesn’t
> happen, that’s when we knew we had something extremely interesting.”
>
> **jeff schaal**

Despite accounting for only 3.2 percent of all cancer cases, pancreatic cancer
is the third leading cause of cancer-related death. It is very difficult to
treat because its tumors tend to develop aggressive genetic mutations that
make it resistant to many drugs, and it is typically diagnosed very late when
it has already spread to other sites in the body.

The current leading treatment combines chemotherapy, which keeps cells in a
stage of reproduction vulnerable to radiation for longer periods of time, with
a beam of radiation targeted at the tumor. This approach, however, is
ineffective unless a certain threshold of radiation reaches the tumor. And
despite recent advances in shaping and targeting radiation beams, that
threshold is very difficult to reach without risking severe side effects.

Another method researchers have tried involves implanting a radioactive sample
encased in titanium directly within the tumor. But because titanium blocks all
radiation other than gamma rays, which travel far outside the tumor, it can
only remain within the body for a short period of time before damage to
surrounding tissue begins to defeat the purpose.

“There’s just no good way to treat pancreatic cancer right now,” said Schaal,
who is now director of research at Cereius, a Durham, NC, biotechnology
startup working to commercialize a targeted radionuclide therapy through a
different technology scheme.

> “There’s just no good way to treat pancreatic cancer right now."
>
> **jeff schaal**

To skirt these issues, Schaal decided to try a similar implantation method
using a substance made of elastin-like polypeptides (ELPs), which are
synthetic chains of amino acids bonded together to form a gel-like substance
with tailored properties. Because ELPs are a focus of the Chilkoti lab, he was
able to work with colleagues to design a delivery system well-suited for the
task.

The ELPs exist in a liquid state at room temperature but form a stable gel-
like substance within the warmer human body. When injected into a tumor along
with a radioactive element, the ELPs form a small depot encasing radioactive
atoms. In this case, the researchers decided to use iodine-131, a radioactive
isotope of iodine, because doctors have used it widely in medical treatments
for decades and its biological effects are well understood.

The ELP depot encases the iodine-131 and prevents it from leaking out into the
body. The iodine-131 emits beta radiation, which penetrates the biogel and
deposits almost all its energy into the tumor without reaching the surrounding
tissue. Over time, the ELP depot degrades into its constituent amino acids and
is absorbed by the body — but not before the iodine-131 has decayed into a
harmless form of xenon.

"The beta radiation also improves the stability of the ELP biogel,” Schaal
said. “That helps the depot last longer and only break down after the
radiation is spent.”

> “My lab has been working on developing new cancer treatments for close to 20
> years, and this work is perhaps the most exciting we have done in terms of
> its potential impact."
>
> **ashutosh chilkoti** | Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of
> Biomedical Engineering

In the new paper, Schaal and his collaborators in the Chilkoti laboratory
tested the new treatment in concert with paclitaxel, a commonly used
chemotherapy drug, to treat various mouse models of pancreatic cancer. They
chose pancreatic cancer because of its infamy for being difficult to treat,
hoping to show that their radioactive tumor implant creates synergistic
effects with chemotherapy that relatively short-lived radiation beam therapy
does not.

The researchers tested their approach on mice with cancers just under their
skin created by several different mutations known to occur in pancreatic
cancer. They also tested it on mice that had tumors within the pancreas, which
is much more difficult to treat.

Overall, the tests saw a 100 percent response rate across all models, with the
tumors being completely eliminated in three-quarters of the models about 80%
of the time. The tests also revealed no immediately obvious side effects
beyond what is caused by chemotherapy alone.

“We think the constant radiation allows the drugs to interact with its effects
more strongly than external beam therapy allows,” Schaal said. “That makes us
think that this approach might actually work better than external beam therapy
for many other cancers, too.”

> “We think the constant radiation allows the drugs to interact with its
> effects more strongly than external beam therapy allows. That makes us think
> that this approach might actually work better than external beam therapy for
> many other cancers, too.”
>
> **jeff schaal**

The approach, however, is still in its early preclinical stages and will not
be available for human use anytime soon. The researchers say their next step
is large animal trials, where they will need to show that the technique can be
accurately done with the existing clinical tools and endoscopy techniques that
doctors are already trained on. If successful, they look toward a Phase 1
clinical trial in humans.

“My lab has been working on developing new cancer treatments for close to 20
years, and this work is perhaps the most exciting we have done in terms of its
potential impact, as late-stage pancreatic cancer is impossible to treat and
is invariably fatal,” Chilkoti said. “Pancreatic cancer patients deserve
better treatment options than are currently available, and I am deeply
committed to taking this all the way into the clinic.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health
(5R01EB000188) and the National Cancer Institute (R35CA197616).

CITATION: “Brachytherapy Via a Depot of Biopolymer-Bound 131I Synergizes With
Nanoparticle Paclitaxel in Therapy-Resistant Pancreatic Tumours,” Jeffrey L.
Schaal, Jayanta Bhattacharyya, Jeremy Brownstein, Kyle C. Strickland, Garrett
Kelly, Soumen Saha, Joshua Milligan, Samagya Banskota, Xinghai Li, Wenge Liu,
David G. Kirsch, Michael R Zalutsky, and Ashutosh Chilkoti. Nature Biomedical
Engineering, 2022. DOI: 10.1038/s41551-022-00949-4

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41551-022-00949-4

## Related News

August 26, 2020

### Type 2 Diabetes Drugs Work Better in Tethered Combination Therapy

September 16, 2019

### Genetic Targeting Gives Cancer Therapy a Better Shot at Success

June 05, 2017

### Injectable Solution May Provide Weeks of Glucose Control

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

