

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ramanujam Wins 2020 SPIE Biophotonics Technology Innovator Award

November 19, 2019

Nimmi Ramanujam was cited for the development of disruptive low-cost, high-
performance technologies to enable see-and-treat paradigms for cervical cancer
prevention

Nimmi Ramanujam, the Robert W. Carr, Jr., Professor of Biomedical Engineering
and director of the Center for Global Women’s Health Technologies at Duke
University, has been named the winner of the 2020 Society of Photo-Optical
Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE) Biophotonics Technology Innovator Award.

The award is presented for extraordinary achievements in biophotonics
technology development that show strong promise or potential impact in
biology, medicine, and biomedical optics. Ramanujam was recognized for her
development of disruptive low-cost, high-performance technologies to enable
see-and-treat paradigms for cervical cancer prevention.

“Cervical cancer is a disease of excess mortality. This is the one cancer that
can be prevented through well-established interventions, and if these
interventions were available to all women I believe the cervical cancer
mortality rate would plummet,” says Ramanujam. “My work is aimed toward
bringing complex services traditionally offered at hard-to-reach referral
settings to primary care.”

Ramanujam has developed multiple highly impactful innovations to address the
needs of global women's health. Most notably, the Point-of-Care Tampon
(POCkeT) Colposcope is designed to increase access to cervical cancer
screening and diagnostics in low- and middle-income areas through community
based health centers and the Callascope would further democratize screening
through home-based exams. Ramanujam and her team have also developed a liquid
scalpel based on low-cost ablative techniques to effectively and immediately
treat pre-invasive lesions, and AI algorithms that enable on-site decision-
making.

Ramanujam has also recently received a Fulbright Global Scholar Award, the
2019 WIMIN Outstanding Leadership Award, 2019 Social Impact Abie Award and the
2018 Velji Award for Global Health. She was also elected to the National
Academy of Inventors.

"Nimmi has been a tenacious driver of in vivo optical imaging for disease
diagnosis and therapeutic guidance, particularly in cancer," notes Brian C.
Wilson, a senior scientist at Toronto's Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, and a
professor of medical biophysics at the University of Toronto. "She has also
demonstrated an unusual ability to move concepts and technologies from bench
to bedside, as well as develop optical technologies for global health. In
addition, she is an active champion of biophotonics education, particularly as
a way to attract more girls into science and technology as career options. She
is an exceptional role model in this important mission."

## Related News

November 01, 2017

### Engineering a New Narrative

May 31, 2017

### New Tech Promises Easier Cervical Cancer Screening

March 01, 2017

### Duke Team Reaches Milestone with Portable Cervical Cancer Screening Device

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

