

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rapidly Building Arteries that Produce Biochemical Signals

February 18, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

New technique speeds tissue engineering of functional arteries

Duke engineers have developed a technique to make artificial arteries that
naturally produce biochemical signals vital to their functions. The technique
is also ten times faster than current methods for tissue engineering of blood
vessels.

Arterial walls have multiple layers of cells, including the endothelium and
media. The endothelium is the innermost lining of all blood vessels that
interacts with circulating blood. The media is made mostly of smooth muscle
cells that help control the flow and pressure of the blood within. These two
layers communicate through a suite of chemical signals that control how the
vascular system reacts to stimuli such as drugs and exercise.

In a new study, biomedical engineers from Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering
successfully engineered artificial arteries containing both layers and
demonstrated their ability to communicate and function normally.

The blood vessels being reported Feb. 18 in Nature Scientific Reports are also
miniaturized to enable 3D microscale artificial organ platforms to test drugs
for efficacy and side effects. The new technique may also enable researchers
to conduct experiments on arterial replacements in record time.

“We wanted to focus on arteries because that’s where most of the damage is
caused in coronary diseases,” said George Truskey, the R. Eugene and Susie E.
Goodson Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Vinik Dean of the Pratt School
of Engineering at Duke.

“Most previous studies had focused on the media cells but hadn’t spent much
time on the endothelial cells, and nobody had shown how the two would
interact,” Truskey said. “Many of the techniques for creating artificial
tissue also were rather lengthy, which was frustrating.”

The frustration came from the six-to-eight weeks it took to grow arteries in
the laboratory. Turning to the literature, Truskey found a paper detailing a
much faster technique used to create a trachea. The method works by putting
cells of the desired tissue inside collagen and compressing for a few minutes.
This both squeezes out excess water and increases the mechanical strength of
the resulting tissue.

For the next six months, graduate student Cristina Fernandez worked to convert
the technique so she could create arteries. And not just any arteries --
arteries scaled down to one tenth the size of a typical human’s, which made
the translation even trickier.

“With a smaller diameter, we could make a lot of these artificial vessels in a
short amount of time,” said Truskey. “We can make these vessels and use them
in only a few hours. To me that was the biggest advance, because spending
several weeks on each set was driving me crazy.”

Once that hurdle was passed, the team tested the new arteries to see how they
would respond to natural and artificial stimuli. In one test, they
administered statins to see if they would block inflammation as they do in
patients. In another test, the researchers looked to see if chemical signals
released from the endothelial cells would cause the media layer to relax and
constrict, as they do in the human body.

In both instances, the engineered arteries behaved normally.

The next step, according to Truskey, is to look at how some select rare
genetic diseases affect the arteries. The end goal is to create a system that
can be used to test drugs that is more accurate and reliable than animal
models.

That goal is part of the Tissue Chip for Drug Screening program, which is
funded by the National Institutes of Health to improve ways of predicting drug
safety and effectiveness. The program is tasked with creating 3-D human tissue
chips and combining them into an integrated system that mimics the complex
functions of the human body, so that promising pharmaceuticals can be better
tested before entering human trials.

At Duke, one side of the project has already demonstrated the fabrication of
skeletal muscle that responds physiologically to stimuli such as drugs. With
the development of these small artificial arteries, the two systems can be
connected and eventually integrated with other tissue proxies, such as
artificial, functioning liver tissue, which is also being pursued at Duke.

But the new technique also could be a boon to researchers everywhere creating
artificial arteries.

“While our arteries are small and intended for testing, they’re just as
mechanically strong as those intended to be put inside of the body,” said
Truskey. “So the technique could be beneficial to researchers trying to create
artificial arteries to replace damaged ones in patients as well.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (4UH3TR000505,
R01HL044972, R21EB017868, P 40 RR017447) and the American Heart Association
(14PRE20500062).

###

“Human Vascular Microphysiological System For In Vitro Drug Screening.” C. E.
Fernandez, R. W. Yen, S. M. Perez, H. W. Bedell, T. J. Povsic, William M.
Reichert, G. A. Truskey. Scientific Reports, Feb. 18, 2016. DOI:
10.1038/srep21579

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

