

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Researchers Demonstrate Fully Recyclable Printed Electronics

April 26, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New technique reclaims nearly 100% of all-carbon-based transistors while
retaining future functionality of the materials

Engineers at Duke University have developed the world’s first fully recyclable
printed electronics. By demonstrating a crucial and relatively complex
computer component — the transistor — created with three carbon-based inks,
the researchers hope to inspire a new generation of recyclable electronics to
help fight the growing global epidemic of electronic waste.

The work appears online April 26 in the journal Nature Electronics.

“Silicon-based computer components are probably never going away, and we don’t
expect easily recyclable electronics like ours to replace the technology and
devices that are already widely used,” said Aaron Franklin, the Addy Professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke. “But we hope that by creating
new, fully recyclable, easily printed electronics and showing what they can
do, that they might become widely used in future applications.”

As people worldwide adopt more electronics into their lives, there’s an ever-
growing pile of discarded devices that either don’t work anymore or have been
cast away in favor of a newer model. According to a United Nations estimate,
less than a quarter of the millions of pounds of electronics thrown away each
year is recycled. And the problem is only going to get worse as the world
upgrades to 5G devices and the Internet of Things (IoT) continues to expand.

Part of the problem is that electronic devices are difficult to recycle. Large
plants employ hundreds of workers who hack at bulky devices. But while scraps
of copper, aluminum and steel can be recycled, the silicon chips at the heart
of the devices cannot.

In the new study, Franklin and his laboratory demonstrate a completely
recyclable, fully functional transistor made out of three carbon-based inks
that can be easily printed onto paper or other flexible, environmentally
friendly surfaces. Carbon nanotubes and graphene inks are used for the
semiconductors and conductors, respectively. While these materials are not new
to the world of printed electronics, Franklin says, the path to recyclability
was opened with the development of a wood-derived insulating dielectric ink
called nanocellulose.

“Nanocellulose is biodegradable and has been used in applications like
packaging for years,” said Franklin. “And while people have long known about
its potential applications as an insulator in electronics, nobody has figured
out how to use it in a printable ink before. That’s one of the keys to making
these fully recyclable devices functional.”

The researchers developed a method for suspending crystals of nanocellulose
that were extracted from wood fibers that — with the sprinkling of a little
table salt — yields an ink that performs admirably as an insulator in their
printed transistors. Using the three inks in an aerosol jet printer at room
temperature, the team shows that their all-carbon transistors perform well
enough for use in a wide variety of applications, even six months after the
initial printing.

The team then demonstrates just how recyclable their design is. By submerging
their devices in a series of baths, gently vibrating them with sound waves and
centrifuging the resulting solution, the carbon nanotubes and graphene are
sequentially recovered with an average yield of nearly 100%. Both materials
can then be reused in the same printing process while losing very little of
their performance viability. And because the nanocellulose is made from wood,
it can simply be recycled along with the paper it was printed on.

Compared to a resistor or capacitor, a transistor is a relatively complex
computer component used in devices such as power control or logic circuits and
various sensors. Franklin explains that, by demonstrating a fully recyclable,
multifunctional printed transistor first, he hopes to make a first step toward
the technology being commercially pursued for simple devices. For example,
Franklin says he could imagine the technology being used in a large building
needing thousands of simple environmental sensors to monitor its energy use or
customized biosensing patches for tracking medical conditions.

“Recyclable electronics like this aren’t going to go out and replace an entire
half-trillion-dollar industry by any means, and we’re certainly nowhere near
printing recyclable computer processors,” said Franklin. “But demonstrating
these types of new materials and their functionality is hopefully a stepping
stone in the right direction for a new type of electronics lifecycle.”

This work was supported by the Department of Defense Congressionally Directed
Medical Research Program (W81XWH-17-2-0045), the National Institutes of Health
(1R01HL146849) and the Air Force Office of Scientific Research
(FA9550-18-1-0222).

CITATION: “Printable and Recyclable Carbon Electronics Using Crystalline
Nanocellulose,” Nicholas X. Williams, George Bullard, Nathaniel Brooke,
Michael J Therien, Aaron D. Franklin. Nature Electronics, April 26, 2021. DOI:
10.1038/s41928-021-00574-0

## Related News

February 20, 2018

### Tire Sensor Technology Launches Multi-Million Dollar Startup

June 14, 2017

### Printed Sensors Monitor Tire Wear in Real Time

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

