

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Regrettable Tattoo? Robots with Tiny Lasers Could Soon Erase the Pain

December 11, 2019 | Miranda Volborth

A Duke team is using laser scalpels and precision robotics to make tattoo
removal faster, more accurate and less painful

They are the faded souvenirs of your questionable judgement, unbridled
revelry, and/or dissolved relationships. But if you thought you’d be stuck
with your bad tattoos forever—or face the pain and potential scarring of laser
removal—take heart: A new robot-guided laser removal system being developed by
the Brain Tool Laboratory at Duke aims to make the process quick and painless.

The Brain Tool Laboratory, which is housed within Duke Robotics, seems an
unlikely birthplace for a tattoo removal system. Duke neurosurgeon and
mechanical engineering and materials science (MEMS) faculty member Patrick
Codd directs the lab, which primarily develops robot-guided laser surgical
systems. Using preoperative MRIs as roadmaps, the systems can precisely
scalpel away targeted tissue—or even vaporize it, if the chosen laser is
powerful enough. But Weston Ross, who earned his PhD in MEMS at Duke and who
is now a postdoctoral scholar in the university’s Department of Neurosurgery,
said that targeting dermatological ailments, such as tattoo removal, has
expanded how the lab’s laser technology can be applied.

“With our robotic scalpel system, we can more precisely locate and treat the
tattoos, without overshooting and damaging surrounding tissue, which happens
too much with current handheld laser systems,” said Ross.

With advanced imaging techniques, such as stereo vision, the system can
precisely locate the tattoo’s boundaries. A robot could then guide a laser
along the trail of ink, bombarding it with light that disintegrates each ink
molecule to be carried away in the bloodstream and disposed of as waste.

> "Using a robot, we can deploy a very tiny laser and trace precisely where
> the tattoo is—there’s no overlapping, no extra damage and you get a uniform
> removal.”
>
> Weston Ross, Phd, MEMS'19

Though the Brain Tool Laboratory’s system sounds similar to current laser
removal techniques, it actually has a couple of huge advantages, according to
Ross. For one thing, it is more targeted, which makes it less painful.
“Currently, a dermatologist uses a handheld laser, moving it across the
surface of the skin,” explained Ross. “That causes a lot of damage and pain
because of the overlapping that happens when the laser goes back and forth
over the image. Using a robot, we can deploy a very tiny laser and trace
precisely where the tattoo is—there’s no overlapping, no extra damage and you
get a uniform removal.”

Moreover, the system allows the doctor to choose the best laser to effectively
disintegrate the type of ink that was used to create the tattoo.

“With any given tattoo, we don’t know what type of ink it is,” said Ross.
“There’s no FDA oversight. A lot of the work is done in professional studios,
but it’s also done in the backs of vans.” The lack of standardization means
that though two black inks might appear identical to the human eye, Ink A
might absorb purple light more readily than Ink B, while Ink B might absorb
red light better.

“We want to choose the most appropriate laser for the job, to reduce pain and
improve the patient experience,” said Ross.

Right now, removing a tattoo usually takes between six and ten sessions,
allowing time between sessions for your skin to heal. But the new system is
expected to be much more efficient, requiring only a couple sessions, with the
tattoo fading into oblivion over several months. The process itself—the
“zap”—might take only tens of seconds.

The Brain Tool Laboratory recently won the American Society for Dermatologic
Surgery Jumpstart Research Seed Grant to develop the prototype system, which
Ross expects to be finished by mid-2020. The interdisciplinary collaboration
between engineering and the medical school will leverage the expertise of
Patrick Codd (Neurosurgery/MEMS), Junjie Yao (Biomedical Engineering), and
Jigar Patel (Dermatology), in addition to Ross.

To scale up beyond the prototype might take four or five years, said Ross, but
he envisions tattoo removal kiosks at the drugstore alongside blood pressure
machines in the not-too-distant future.

And, added Ross, tattoo removal, while worthy, isn’t the end game for the
lab’s new technology. “It would be super cool if the research we put together
could target indications that are more detrimental—like skin cancers,” he
said.

More about the Brain Tool Laboratory

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

