

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke to Lead $5.83 Million DHS Project to Reinvent Airport Screening

December 7, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Engineering researchers will develop molecular-level X-ray screening
technology to improve airport security

The US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has tapped the expertise of
electrical engineers at Duke University to design and develop a new type of
X-ray scanner that combines the best features of the two technologies. With
the ability to detect not just the 3D shape of an object but its molecular
composition, the resulting device could one day become standard in airports
the world over.

Under a three-year, $5.83 million contract with DHS, Duke researchers will
work with collaborators at the University of Arizona, private industry firm
Smiths Detection, and Durham, NC-based startup Quadridox, Inc. to bring to
market the advanced X-ray detection technology.

The project is being led by Duke’s Joel Greenberg, assistant research
professor of electrical and computer engineering, and Michael Gehm, associate
professor of electrical and computer engineering, who are joined by Amit
Ashok, associate professor of optical sciences and of electrical and computer
engineering at the University of Arizona.

“A hospital will spend a million dollars on a thorough scanning device that
can process four relatively predictable people in an hour,” said Greenberg.
“An airport wants a device that can process thousands of bags—which could
literally contain just about anything—each hour for less than $100,000. That’s
why airport security technology is so challenging.”

The technology at the heart of the new project is a hybrid X-ray system that
combines a multi-view transmission with X-ray diffraction tomography. The
former involves passing X-rays through an item from multiple angles to develop
a 3D image and is already in use in many airport screening devices. The latter
currently doesn’t exist outside of laboratory prototypes and was originally
explored beginning in 2012 by Greenberg and David Brady, the Michael J.
Fitzpatrick Professor of Photonics at Duke.

X-ray diffraction tomography involves gathering information from X-rays that
have bounced off of an object to determine what materials it is made out of.
When an X-ray ricochets off of an object, its deflection angle and wavelength
create a sort of “fingerprint” unique to that material’s atomic structure. The
technology to ID these fingerprints already exists. The challenge is in
engineering a system that can do it quickly.

The standard approach is to block all X-rays except those coming from a
specific direction to ensure the detector only gathers the ones carrying the
fingerprint information. This results in very few X-rays reaching the
detector, however, and takes too long to gather enough data to be useful to a
high-throughput security scanner.

The Duke team’s approach has been to use a coded aperture, a sort of pierced
shield that allows X-rays traveling at many different angles to pass through
its holes. The trick is in knowing the exact pattern being used to block the
X-rays, which a computer can then use to process the larger, more complex
signal. This allows the researchers to gather enough deflected X-rays in a
short time span to make a positive ID on the material being scanned.

The original project culminated in a prototype that worked, but was far from a
commercially viable product. Now, Greenberg and Gehm along with Arizona’s Amit
Ashok plan to use computer simulations to improve on that initial design while
simultaneously integrating multi-view transmission technology.

“We’re actually kind of taking a step back in this project in the hopes of
taking several steps forward,” said Greenberg. “We’re going back to the
drawing board in terms of system design and trying to determine the
fundamental performance limits of such a hybrid system. That will help us then
create an optimal design and build a real, robust scanner that considers
performance as well as commercial and deployment constraints.”

“We’ve spent the past five years developing a really high-performance X-ray
simulation tool that allows us to probe many thousands of synthetic pieces of
baggage to explore the performance of arbitrary systems,” said Gehm. “We’ll be
turning that simulation capability loose on the problem of finding the
hardware configuration that provides the best hybrid transmission/diffraction
approach.”

Ashok’s expertise will allow the team to use information-theoretic design to
look at the fundamental limits of the group’s designs. By computationally
modeling various configurations, Ashok will help determine the optimal
framework for the system’s hardware and software before anything is even
built.

“A system can succeed despite bad software if the signal coming from the
hardware is excellent,” said Ashok. “Similarly, it can have terrible hardware
but get the job done through an amazing algorithm. Information-theoretic
design allows us to disentangle these two aspects of a final system to
determine the optimal solution for each.”

Helping move these simulations forward will be a new $400,000 GPU-enabled
computing resource being added to the Duke shared computing cluster. Once the
system is designed, the team will turn to Smiths Detection, a global leader in
threat detection and screening technologies, and a local startup called
Quadridox—formed by Greenberg, Gehm, Ashok and Anuj Kapadia, assistant
professor of radiology at the Duke University School of Medicine—to build and
test a prototype device.

“The initial work on this technology never quite got to the point where a
commercial partner would want to take a shot at developing a device,” said
Greenberg. “But we’re hoping in taking a slightly different approach, we can
engineer a security scanner that combines two useful technologies for the
first time that works much better than any scanner that relies on only one or
the other.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

