

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nanotechnology Network Meets National and Research Triangle Research and
Educational Needs

August 24, 2020

Renewal grant ties Duke together with Triangle universities to help
researchers, businesses and educators pursue nanotechnology innovation

Duke University has been renewed for five years as part of the Research
Triangle Nanotechnology Network (RTNN), part of National Science Foundation-
funded National Nanotechnology Coordinated Infrastructure, a United States
network to help researchers, businesses and educators pursue nanotechnology
innovation.

The Research Triangle of North Carolina is home to some of the most highly
ranked educational institutions in the country in science and technology.
Duke, North Carolina State University (NCSU), and the University of North
Carolina – Chapel Hill (UNC-CH) have teamed to form the RTNN to foster a
technology ecosystem that has benefited the three research universities, a
dynamic local tech startup climate, large established technology companies,
one of the largest community college systems in the nation and the local K-12
educational system.

Led by NCSU, the RTNN excelled in this mission in the first five years of NSF
funding, and has been renewed by the NSF for another $5.5 million grant over
five years to serve the Triangle and the nation by providing unprecedented
access to nanotechnology facilities, expertise and educational opportunities
for all users. It is being funded by the NSF National Nanotechnology
Coordinated Infrastructure (NNCI), which has enabled major discoveries,
innovations and contributions to education and commerce by providing
researchers from academia, small and large companies, and government with open
access to university user facilities.

"The renewal award reinforces the sustained high quality and impact of the
nanotechnology facilities, research and educational programs in the Research
Triangle region of North Carolina,” said Jacob Jones, distinguished professor
of materials science and engineering at NCSU and director and principal
investigator of the RTNN. “It is important to our universities because it
allows us to continue supporting exciting nanotechnology programs that serve
both local and national interests."

In the first five years of funding, the RTNN has been a national focal point
for enabling innovative nanoscience and nanotechnology research, discovery,
workforce development, and education through

  1. open access to an evolving and integrated suite of cutting-edge fabrication and characterization facilities,
  2. engagement of faculty and user populations with diverse research expertise to support the development of new processes, tools and instrumentation, and
  3. innovative training programs, outreach and meetings/workshops to reach and educate new user populations. The RTNN currently reaches more than10,000 people per year through a variety of nanotechnology educational and outreach programs, particularly focusing on under-served populations in STEM. 

“This program has brought national acclaim and nanotechnology resources to our
region,” said Nan Jokerst, the J. A. Jones Distinguished Professor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering and executive director of the Shared
Materials Instrumentation Facility at Duke. “We’ve engaged in multiple
innovative approaches with this program in the first five years, and we are
tremendously pleased to continue our work with the renewal of this highly
competitive grant.”

Duke has a wide array of powerful tools that can help advance innovations from
concept to prototype and, ultimately, through manufacturing for the
marketplace.

The Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF) is an interdisciplinary,
shared resource providing access to advanced materials characterization and
fabrication capabilities. Among other instruments, it is home to the MicroCT
scanner, which uses x-rays to create 3D models of objects slice-by-slice, a
state-of-the-art cleanroom for nanotechnology research, and a Krios cryo-TEM
for imaging biological single particles.

The RTNN renewal is based upon innovative, nationally leading programs that
enable research and education, and engage new users. The RTNN programs include
_Kickstarter_ , which funded 75 projects for over 1,300 hours of free RTNN
facility access. This free access enabled awardees to gain preliminary
research results that enabled over 38% of them to return to RTNN facilities
and subsequently spend over $133,000 in the facilities.

Another nationally leading program developed by the RTNN is the online
Coursera course “Nanotechnology, A Maker’s Course,” hosted by Duke, which
launched in September 2017. Highlighting diverse students demonstrating the
use of nanotechnology equipment in RTNN facilities, the course gives students
a sense of the nanotechnology tools and capabilities, and raises awareness of
RTNN facilities and how to access them. To date, over 120,000 people have
visited the course website, over 20,000 students have engaged with the course,
and over 5,000 have completed all course components, with students from more
than 150 countries.

The RTNN also stands out in local outreach. In the first five years of the
program, RTNN staff have traveled to many K-12 classrooms and hosted students
in the RTNN labs, interacting with almost 2,000 students, with over 60% of
those students from under-represented groups in STEM.

Between Duke, NCSU and UNC-CH, the RTNN has a suite of facilities that enable
the next generation of technology innovation. These facilities have capacities
including nanofabrication of electronics, textiles fabrication and
characterization, sophisticated materials characterization, and labs that
evaluate interactions between nanotechnologies and the environment. Through
the RTNN partnership, an ecosystem of both technology and educational
innovation has been created and fostered, spreading throughout the Research
Triangle region, to the State of North Carolina, and to the nation.

For more information or to explore the resources available in the region,
visit www.rtnn.ncsu.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

