

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rubinstein Named 2018 Bingham Medalist of the Society of Rheology

March 19, 2018

Michael Rubinstein recognized for advancing fundamental understanding of
complex fluid flows

Michael Rubinstein, a professor in Duke University’s Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS) with joint appointments in Biomedical
Engineering, Chemistry and Physics, was named the 2018 Bingham Medalist of the
Society of Rheology.

The award recognizes Rubinstein’s contributions to the theory of rheology of
complex fluids and polymers and his intellectual leadership in both industry
and academia that has helped bridge the practical, engineering science of
rheology with molecular physics.

Rheology involves the study of the flow of complex fluids. Over the last 50
years the field has transformed from an applied branch of engineering focused
on optimizing materials processing to a fundamental molecular science that
allows researchers to design molecular components for complex solids and
liquids with the desired elasticity and viscosity at particular deformation
rates. Through his work in the field, Rubinstein has been able to develop
molecular models of diseases like thromboembolism and explain why the buildup
of mucus by cystic fibrosis isn’t cleared from the lungs, allowing researchers
and clinicians to design better treatments for these ailments.

Internationally recognized as an expert in polymer theory and computer
simulations, Rubinstein joined Duke in 2018. He is currently building a Soft
Matter Center that will bring together soft matter researchers across the
Pratt School of Engineering, the Duke University School of Medicine and the
Trinity College of Arts & Sciences to contribute to this growing field.

“I am humbled, honored and very happy that my work in the field of rheology is
recognized by my peers. Rheology is a central part of soft matter, which over
the last decade has rapidly transformed into a new field of science that
connects fundamental molecular understanding of complex phenomena to direct
applications in industrial engineering and medicine,” Rubinstein said. “I plan
to work with researchers at Duke working in this exciting new area to form a
Soft Matter Center that I hope will become the headquarters of new national
and international soft matter societies.”

The Bingham Medal will be presented at the 90th Society of Rheology Annual
Meeting, held October 14-18 in Houston, Texas, which will feature a plenary
lecture by Rubinstein.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

