

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rush Hour Pollution May Be More Dangerous Than You Think

July 21, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

In-car air study of commuting cars finds dangers to human health

DURHAM, N.C. -- The first in-car measurements of exposure to pollutants that
cause oxidative stress during rush hour commutes has turned up potentially
alarming results. The levels of some forms of harmful particulate matter
inside car cabins was found to be twice as high as previously believed.

Most traffic pollution sensors are placed on the ground alongside the road and
take continuous samples for a 24-hour period. Exhaust composition, however,
changes rapidly enough for drivers to experience different conditions inside
their vehicles than these roadside sensors. Long-term sampling also misses
nuanced variabilities caused by road congestion and environmental conditions.

To explore what drivers are actually exposed to during rush hour, researchers
from Duke University, Emory University and the Georgia Institute of Technology
strapped specially designed sampling devices into the passenger seats of cars
during morning rush hour commutes in downtown Atlanta.

The devices detected up to twice as much particulate matter as the roadside
sensors. The team also found that the pollution contained twice the amount of
chemicals that cause oxidative stress, which is thought to be involved in the
development of many diseases including respiratory and heart disease, cancer,
and some types of neurodegenerative diseases.

The results were published on June 27 in the journal Atmospheric Environment.

“We found that people are likely getting a double whammy of exposure in terms
of health during rush-hour commutes,” said Michael Bergin, professor of civil
and environmental engineering at Duke. “If these chemicals are as bad for
people as many researchers believe, then commuters should seriously be
rethinking their driving habits.”

For the experiment, Roby Greenwald, a research assistant professor at Emory at
the time, built a sampling device that draws in air at a similar rate to human
lungs to provide detectable levels of pollution. The device was then secured
to the passenger seats of more than 30 different cars as they completed more
than 60 rush hour commutes.

Some drivers took highway routes while others stuck to busy thoroughfares in
downtown Atlanta. While other details like speed and having windows rolled
down varied, all of the sampling found more risk in air exposure than previous
studies conducted with roadside sampling devices.

“There are a lot of reasons an in-car air sample would find higher levels of
certain kinds of air pollution,” said Heidi Vreeland, a doctoral student in
Bergin’s lab and first author of the paper. “The chemical composition of
exhaust changes very quickly, even in the space of just a few feet. And
morning sun heats the roadways, which causes an updraft that brings more
pollution higher into the air.”

Reactive oxygen species found by this study can cause the body to produce
chemicals to deal with the reactive oxygen. Particulate matter causes the same
response. In combination, the exposure triggers an overreaction that can be
destructive to healthy cells and DNA.

Oxidative stress—the phenomenon antioxidant foods are supposed to address—is
thought to play a role in a wide range of diseases including Asperger’s
syndrome, ADHD, cancer, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease,
atherosclerosis, heart failure and heart attack, sickle cell disease, autism,
infection, chronic fatigue syndrome and depression.

“There’s still a lot of debate about what types of pollution are cause for the
biggest concern and what makes them so dangerous,” Bergin said. “But the
bottom line is that driving during rush hour is even worse than we thought.”

“My two cents is that this is really an urban planning failure,” said
Greenwald, who is now an assistant professor of environmental health at
Georgia State University. “In the case of Atlanta, the poor air quality on the
highways is due to the fact that 6 million people live in the metro area, and
most of them have little choice but to get into an automobile to go to work or
school or the store or wherever. Auto-centric transportation plans do not
scale well to cities of this size, and this is one more example of how traffic
negatively affects your health.”

The work was supported by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(RD834799).

CITATION: “Oxidative Potential Of PM2.5 During Atlanta Rush Hour: Measurements
Of In-Vehicle Dithiothreitol (DTT) Activity,” Heidi Vreeland, Rodney Weber,
Michael Bergin, Roby Greenwald, Rachel Golan, Armistead G. Russell, Vishal
Verma and Jeremy Sarnat. Atmospheric Environment, 2017. DOI:
10.1016/j.atmosenv.2017.06.044

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

