

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Safe Travels

October 10, 2019

Duke ECE is driving a new $5.83 million airport security project

Tactical sporks. Million-volt tasers disguised as lipsticks. Suitcases packed
with fireworks.

Every day, TSA agents intercept a baffling assortment of weird and dangerous
items that passengers try to smuggle onto planes. Most often, they catch the
contraband with X-ray imaging. But anyone who has ever flown for business is
familiar with the limitations of that process: X-rays have trouble passing
through metal objects like laptops, which is why travelers must remove their
laptops from their luggage and send them through the conveyor in a separate
bin.

ECE associate professor Michael Gehm said that over the next few years,
airports will begin using computerized tomography—analogous to CT scanners
used in hospitals—to get 3D X-ray visuals on a bag’s contents. But even these
CT images cannot always easily distinguish among similar liquids, which leaves
the problem of determining whether a bottle is full of shampoo or something
more sinister.

“You really need some additional information,” said Joel Greenberg, an
associate research professor in Gehm’s lab and the principal investigator on a
new government-funded $5.8 million aviation security project. “Instead of
measuring only the X-rays that go straight through an object, we also want to
measure the scattered X-rays—the ones that go in, interact with the material
in the bag, and bounce off.”

> “Instead of measuring only the X-rays that go straight through an object, we
> also want to measure the scattered X-rays—the ones that go in, interact with
> the material in the bag, and bounce off.”
>
> —Duke ECE associate research professor Joel Greenberg

“The way in which they interact gives you identification at the molecular
level,” added Gehm. “You get the unique fingerprint of the material in the
bag.”

That interaction is called X-ray diffraction, and it has been studied for more
than 100 years. While the physics is not new, stressed Greenberg, the
technique is difficult to implement because of the very weak signal that is
produced.

“If you were taking a photograph in the dark, you could open up your shutter
for a long time and eventually capture enough light to illuminate the subject
of the photo,” explained Gehm. “If you use a quick shutter speed, your image
will be dark. It’s the same principle—we have a weak process that doesn’t give
us many photons to measure.”

With the length of the lines at airport security checkpoints, creating long
exposures isn’t an option. “You have to capture the image quickly to keep the
lines moving,” said Gehm.

The pair is designing an X-ray system that combines transmission imaging and
X-ray diffraction tomography to get information faster. But making decisions
about the system design— how many sensors and/or sources, what types, and what
configurations—can become prohibitively expensive if a prototype has to be
built before any real testing can occur. Having the ability to do an initial
round of virtual testing allows researchers to quickly and inexpensively zero
in on a promising system configuration.

Instead, the team developed a mathematical tool that simulates detector
performance, source performance, and geometry, and gives them the ability to
analyze which configurations show the most promise before building them.
“We’re attacking it using the simulation tool and information theory, and
getting diffraction measurements faster, to relieve some of the practical
pressures,” said Gehm.

Greenberg and Gehm have brought in collaborators with highly specialized
expertise to augment their work, including Duke radiology professor Anuj
Kapadia and the University of Arizona’s Amit Ashok, a professor of optical
sciences.

“Quicker lines at airport security and getting to hold on to your water bottle
would be nice benefits,” said Greenberg, “but better detection of current and
emerging threats is paramount.”

More Stories from the 2019-2020 Duke ECE Magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

