

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Samira Musah: Engineering Stem Cell Fate for Applications in Kidney Disease

August 13, 2018

New faculty member Samira Musah is guiding stem cells to model, and
potentially develop new treatment strategies for the widespread disease

Samira Musah will join the faculty of Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering beginning January 1, 2019. With research at the
intersection of stem cell biology and organ engineering, Musah will use her
new role at Duke to explore how molecular signals and biophysical forces can
guide organ development and treat human disease.

Musah’s work is centered around human kidney disease, a disorder that affects
nearly 15 percent of the world’s population. Healthy kidneys are able to
filter blood, excreting waste and extra fluid as urine. But when kidney
function breaks down, dangerous levels of fluid and waste can build up in the
body, damaging the heart, brain and immune system.

Because many patients don’t exhibit early symptoms of kidney disease, the
illness typically isn’t diagnosed until kidney function is significantly
impaired, requiring patients to go on dialysis. While it’s the gold standard
for treating kidney disease, dialysis isn’t a cure and only delays the
necessity of an organ transplant.

Musah is trying to change that.

“The goal of my work is to use patient-specific stem cells to understand how
the kidney develops,” says Musah. “If we could create a platform that mimics
human kidney function, we could potentially identify natural disease markers
to determine which patients are developing kidney disease and monitor its
progression.”

Using pluripotent stem cells from patients, Musah aims to design environments
that give cues to stem cells telling them to differentiate into specific cell
types, like kidney cells. By determining how to generate various types of
kidney cells, her lab could then create more complex in vitro models that
mimic the structure and function of the kidneys, potentially creating a
platform for targeted drug development.

“Advancements in the stem cell field have given us tools, like induced
pluripotent stem cells, that will allow us to create these new disease
models,” says Musah.

Musah will join Duke from Harvard University, where she’s currently a Wyss
Research Fellow in the Department of Genetics at Harvard Medical School. In
addition to her new role in Duke BME, Musah will be an assistant professor in
the Duke University School of Medicine’s Nephrology Division.

“Having the biomedical engineering capabilities from the BME department
coupled with the clinical expertise in the medical school will greatly enhance
our ability to design robust experimental systems to advance human kidney
research,” says Musah. “I’m excited to pursue this work at Duke, where we can
hopefully design better disease models that we translate from the bench to the
clinic.”

To combine her expertise in the engineering and medical fields, Musah will
also become a MEDx Investigator at Duke. A partnership between the Pratt
School of Engineering and the Duke School of Medicine, MEDx aims to support
new partnerships and projects between engineers and physicians at the
university.

As she prepares to move from Massachusetts to North Carolina, Musah is excited
about fostering new collaborations with researchers and students across
campus.

“When you’re trying to tackle new challenges in biology and medicine, you need
to work with people who have a myriad of expertise. You always want to work
with people who have a fresh way of looking at problems that we have been
trying to solve for a long time,” says Musah. “If we’re trying to address
kidney disease, I obviously want to work with people in BME and nephrology,
but I also want to explore projects with researchers in cardiology,
developmental and cell biology, and even in mathematics and computational
biology.”

“Duke will be a wonderful environment where I can pursue these
interdisciplinary collaborations, and I can’t wait to get started.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

