

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sapiro Elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences

April 23, 2018

Duke engineer honored for applying machine learning techniques to image
processing in a wide range of applications

Guillermo Sapiro, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University, has been named a Fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Sapiro’s research focuses on developing
theories and applications for computer vision, computer graphics, medical
imaging, image analysis and machine learning.

For example, he is working to piece together a complete picture of the
synapses in mammalian brains and developing MRI technology that can directly
detect neuroelectric activities in the human brain. He is also one of the
leaders in a campus-wide initiative to create an app using the Apple
ResearchKit that could expand autism screening and enable earlier diagnosis
and intervention and is developing smart algorithms that bring clinical
expertise in image interpretation for cervical cancer screenings to the
community level.

“This is an honor that recognizes the outstanding team I have been privileged
to have for over 20 years, from students to colleagues,” said Sapiro. “I am
just representing all of them in receiving this honor.”

Sapiro has also received the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientist and
Engineers (PECASE), the National Science Foundation Career Award, and the
National Security Science and Engineering Faculty Fellowship. He is also the
founding editor-in-chief of the SIAM Journal on Imaging Sciences.

Founded in 1780, the Academy honors exceptional scholars, leaders, artists,
and innovators and engages them in sharing knowledge and addressing challenges
facing the world. The academy elected 213 members to its 238th class on
Wednesday.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

