

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Student Team’s Success in Energy Case Competition is Powered By the Unique
Duke Experience

August 9, 2017

A Duke University undergraduate team has taken top honors in the North
American division of Schneider Electric’s 2017 Go Green in the City case
competition

From the Duke University Energy Initiative website

A Duke University undergraduate team has taken top honors in the North
American division of Schneider Electric’s 2017 Go Green in the City case
competition, which focuses on sustainable energy approaches in urban
environments.

In October, rising juniors Ankit Rastogi and Zui Dighe will head to Paris to
compete with 11 other teams from across the world for the international prize.

The Schneider Electric case competition, now in its seventh year, invites
student teams across the world to submit brief statements proposing solutions
to one of four energy management case challenges. With each round of the
competition, the initial pool of participants (more than 1,900 teams) narrows
and continuing teams are asked to provide more detail about their solutions.

## The Duke team’s solution

Rastogi and Dighe chose to respond to the “strategy and technology” challenge
statement, which addressed how the energy industry can better use up-and-
coming technologies (IoT, cloud-based, etc.) to collect, analyze, and base
decisions on data.

Their solution is a remote monitoring system that leverages cloud-based
analytics to determine the best renewable energy option for a given community.

“In many places, funds for energy development exist, but there’s a lack of
data to inform action. Our platform can be used to collect, analyze, and view
data about energy access, environmental factors, and other information—and to
identify what will work best in that situation,” explains Rastogi, a
mechanical engineering major and electrical and computer engineering minor.
“This data will be used to drive decisions regarding which source of clean
energy best meets a community's energy needs and is affordable.”

For the semifinals in Boston, the Duke team had to prepare an 800-word
summary, a presentation, and a short video explaining their solution and its
potential impact. Each of the seven semifinalist teams was assigned a
Schneider Electric mentor; Dighe and Rastogi were paired with Dina Yorke,
North American Director of Global Diversity and Inclusion.

“This competition has required Ankit and me to really drill down on the
technology,” says Dighe, a biomedical engineering major and computer science
minor. “But at the same time, all along the way, we’ve really tried to keep
people the main focus. We want our system to yield solutions that people want
and that are tailored to their needs—and that means accounting for human and
business factors. Our Schneider mentor helped us continue to address diversity
and inclusion.”

In Paris, the finalist teams will meet with top Schneider Electric executives,
offering additional detail about their solution and what its successful
rollout would look like. Winners of the international prize will have the
opportunity to travel to any two company locations to begin implementing their
solution. The winning team will also receive job offers from Schneider
Electric.

## 'The Quintessential Duke story'

Dighe and Rastogi’s success did not emerge in a vacuum but in the context of
Duke’s investment in a vibrant interdisciplinary energy community with nearly
1.4K students enrolled in 57 energy courses in 2016-2017. More than 100
faculty conduct energy research, and the university is home to seven energy
degree programs and certificates. The Duke University Energy Initiative acts
as an interdisciplinary hub for energy education, research, and engagement
across the university’s schools.

One growing focus of Duke’s energy work is the challenge of providing energy
access across the globe: worldwide, 1.2 billion people lack access to
electricity and about one billion more have unreliable access.

For their part, Rastogi and Dighe are quick to note that, while they are proud
of what they’re developing for the Schneider competition, this isn’t just an
isolated project. “This is actually the quintessential Duke story,” Rastogi
says. “There’s such a strong culture here of taking action on academic
research—and the University offers the infrastructure to support that. As Duke
students, we have been able to tap all these different nodes on campus,
finding advice and resources to develop something really innovative.”

Dighe and Rastogi trace their own energy management solution back to a
2015-2016 Bass Connections in Energy team. Led by Jim Rogers (former Duke
Energy CEO, author of Lighting the World, and Rubenstein Fellow) and Tim
Profeta (director of the Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy
Solutions), the Bass Connections team designed student projects focused on
off-grid electricity access, which were then funded through Duke Engage.

“The goal was to create impactful energy access projects that were designed in
iterative ways, to allow Duke students and researchers to make progress with
partner organizations over time,” explains Profeta. “That summer, four Duke
undergraduates were able to take those ideas and run with them, via two
projects in Peru and Indonesia.”

One project partnered with WindAid, a nonprofit based in Trujillo, Peru, where
students helped to build wind turbines for distribution to communities in need
of electricity. Afterward, the students moved to Playa Blanca, a small fishing
village, where they assessed the impact of the wind turbines while engaging
with the community to educate residents on the importance of the turbines.

A second project took place in Kamanggih, Indonesia, where students partnered
with Institut Bisnis dan Ekonomi Kerakyatan (IBEKA) to complete an assessment
of an electrification project.

“When students came back to campus after that first summer in Peru and
Indonesia, they were so inspired, and a group of us just organically began to
connect, initially sharing information and ideas via Slack,” recalls Leighanne
Oh (BSE’15, MS’17), a member of the original Bass Connections team who
encouraged Dighe and Rastogi to enter the competition.

“Over the course of the year, we met more students who were interested in
opportunities for action,” recalls Oh. The informal network eventually
included 12-15 students who now refer to their group as EnergyX. This summer,
2 students returned to Peru to continue the project there with funding from
Duke Engage, and rising senior Tyler Wakefield is extending the work in
Indonesia with support from the Nicholas Institute and the Sanford School of
Public Policy.

“All the other EnergyX students have helped us find our path as we’ve gone
through the stages of this competition,” Rastogi notes. “The students who
worked in Peru and Indonesia—Aashna Agarwal, Conor Guest, Katherine Guo,
Danielle Holt, and Tyler Wakefield—shared data and offered insights that
helped us think about how to integrate the technology to serve the community.
And so many others—including graduate students like Leighanne—have also been
invaluable resources, both on the technical and social aspects of what we’re
doing.”

And of course, Dighe points out, many Duke faculty have played a role. “Tim
Profeta and Jim Rogers have been so influential and inspirational. Even
faculty members whoseresearch doesn’t focus on energy access have taught us
things we’ve been able to able to transfer,” says Dighe, mentioning the
influence of biomedical engineering professor Mark Palmeri.

Palmeri helped Rastogi and Dighe learn more about Particle Electron
microcontrollers, a technology that plays a critical role in their solution.
Duke students and researchers have been using the same technology for a
vaccine tracking project (via a biomedical engineeringcourse), energy
management of a solar-paneled health clinic (via Duke Engineers for
International Development), and wind turbine performance monitoring at the
DukeEngage project in Peru.

## Duke and energy access: What’s next

Oh says watching this team makes her think back to the 2015-2016 Bass
Connections project led by Rogers and Profeta.

“Part of the project involved identifying and analyzing schools at the
forefront of advancing energy access solutions,” Oh recalls. “Most were strong
in either research or engagement but not both. We didn’t see a high level of
cooperation between undergraduate and graduate students at any of the schools.
I think Duke is becoming a place where a student can come in at any level,
with any major or degree concentration, and contribute to meaningful progress
on energy access.”

New funds will advance that trajectory. In late 2016, Duke University received
$2.25 million in funding for a university-wide energy access project,
including a $1.5 million gift from Jim and his wife M.A. Rogers as well as
$750,000 in matching funds from the Bass Connections Challenge. Key partners
in the project include Bass Connections, the Energy Initiative, the Nicholas
Institute, Nicholas School of the Environment, and Sanford School of Public
Policy.

The new funds represent initial support for a long-term, sustainable focus at
Duke on the challenge of access and transitions to sustainable energy for low-
and middle-income countries around the world.

The project will build on a range of recent developments in energy access at
Duke:

  * Launch of an international network of energy access researchers and
    practitioners led by Duke faculty Subhrendu Pattanayak and Marc Jeuland,
    well-known experts on health and household energy in developing countries;
  * Bass Connections, Duke Engage and Data+ projects focused on energy access,
    including two new projects connected with the Energy Initiative’s Energy
    Data Analytics Lab;
  * Launch of GLEAN, an interdisciplinary network of 50+ graduate students
    (funded by a D-SIGN grant and housed in the Energy Initiative) who will
    soon release their first ebook of energy access case studies;
  * New interdisciplinary faculty research teams (some supported by the Energy
    Initiative’s Energy Research Seed Fund) addressing the topic;
  * The Energy in Emerging Markets Case Competition (organized by Fuqua MBA
    students and now in its fifth year), which attracts participation from
    top-tier universities and which awarded $15K in prizes last year; and
  * New research, funded through the Nicholas Institute’s Catalyst Program, to
    pilot-test methods for overcoming the remarkable absence of evidence
    concerning the link between energy and economic development in rural
    areas.

“I’m so proud of Ankit and Zui,” says Profeta, who is currently leading a
search for a director for the new energy access project. “And it’s downright
inspiring to see how so many within the Duke community are galvanizing to
address a critical global challenge. I look forward to what’s next—for Ankit
and Zui in Paris and also for Duke’s broader energy community and its impact.”

_Are you a Duke student interested in energy?_ Sign up for regular updates
from the Energy Initiative on energy news, events, and competition
opportunities at Duke and beyond. You might also want to learn more about Duke
student energy organizations, including EnergyX.

_Are you an alum or energy professional who seeks to connect with Duke
students?_ Contact Stacy Peterson. (Hope you’ll join our email list, too!)

_Interested in providing financial support for energy education
opportunities?_ Contact Sarah Weissberg.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

