

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Scovazzi Named 2017 Alumnus of the Year by Politecnico di Torino

May 18, 2017

The ceremony took place on Sunday May 14, in the Aula Magna of Politecnico

Guglielmo Scovazzi was named by his alma mater Politecnico di Torino
(Polytechnic Institute of Turin, Italy) “2017 Alumnus of the Year.” The
ceremony took place on Sunday May 14, in the _Aula Magna_ of Politecnico.

Presenting the award was Antonio Strumia, President of the Alumni Association
of the Politecnico di Torino and Managing Director of SICME Motori; Francesco
Profumo, alumnus, President of Compagnia di San Paolo, former Minister of
Education, University and Research of Italy, and former Rector of Politecnico
di Torino; Valentino Castellani, alumnus, Professor at Politecnico and Former
Mayor of the City of Turin; Michela Meo, Professor and Vice-rector of
Politecnico; Marco Cantamessa, alumnus and CEO of I3P, the startup incubator
of Politecnico di Torino; Flavio Canavero, alumnus and Professor and Chair of
the Graduate Studies Program of Politecnico di Torino; and Anna Osello,
alumnus and Professor in digital modeling at Politecnico di Torino.

“It is with great honor and great joy that I receive this award from the
Politecnico, my Italian alma mater," says Guglielmo Scovazzi. "The award
committee praised my career achievements, and in particular the recent PECASE
award from the Executive Office of the White House. I am elated. I left
Politecnico 18 years ago, as the top-ranked engineering school of Italy, and
now I found it consistently in the top 8 European Engineering Schools.
Politecnico’s environment is forward-looking and projected towards the
international academic/research/innovation community: I am so proud about the
award as well as what Politecnico achieved in the past few years. This award
also helps me to reconnect with Politecnico about research, and to seek
collaborations in the near future.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

