

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Shape of a Perfect Fire

June 8, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

A new Duke theory identifies the height-to-base ratio that helped humanity
master fire and migrate across the globe

From ancient Egyptians roasting a dripping cut of beef next to the Great
Pyramid of Giza to a Boy Scout learning to build a log cabin fire in his
backyard, everyone builds fires with the same general shape.

And now we know why.

In a study published in Nature Scientific Reports on June 8, 2015, Adrian
Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Duke University,
shows that, all other variables being equal, the best fires are roughly as
tall as they are wide. This is why, he argues, everyone has built fires that
basically look the same since the dawn of time.

“Humans from all eras have been relying on this design,” said Bejan. “The
reason is that this shape is the most efficient for air and heat flow. Our
success in building fires in turn made it possible for humans to migrate and
spread across the globe heat flow from fire facilitates the movement and
spreading of human mass on the globe, which is a direct prediction of the
Constructal Law.”

In 1996, Bejan penned the Constructal Law that postulates that movement—or
“flow”— systems such as trees, rivers or air currents evolve into
configurations that provide easier and easier access to flows. Now
internationally recognized, the law is increasingly finding applications in
improving design and maximizing efficiency of manmade systems.

Bejan continued, “Our bonfires are shaped as cones and pyramids, as tall as
they are wide at the base. They look the same in all sizes, from the firewood
in the chimney, to the tree logs and wooden benches in the center of the
university campus after the big game. They look the same as the pile of
charcoal we make to grill meat. And now we know why.”

So the next time you’re out camping and want to build the perfect fire, now
you know what general shape it should take.

But you already knew that, didn’t you?

###

“Why humans build fires shaped the same way.” Adrian Bejan. Nature Scientific
Reports, 2015; 5:11270. DOI: 10.1038/srep11270

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

