

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Showing Washington the Future of Global Women’s Health

November 22, 2016

Congressman David Price visits Professor Nimmi Ramanujam's Center for Global
Women's Health Technologies

David Price, US Representative for North Carolina’s 4th congressional
district, traveled to Duke University’s Gross Hall November 18 to learn about
the future of women’s health technology.

The visit was inspired by Nimmi Ramanujam’s congressional briefing on Capitol
Hill earlier this fall to inform legislators about the impact of her federally
funded research aimed at improving cancer screening and treatment on a global
scale. Price is on the Committee on Appropriations and has long had an
interest in health care, both at home and abroad, which led to his visit to
see Ramanujam’s work first-hand.

During his hour-long visit, Price learned about Ramanujam’s various research
projects, which focus on improving health outcomes through improved patient
experience and reduced cost, both in the United States and in developing
nations.

Graduate student Brandon Nichols talked about his work in breast cancer
imaging. During an operation to remove a tumor, surgeons face the difficult
challenge of removing all of the cancerous tissue while leaving behind as much
healthy tissue as possible. A significant number of patients, however, return
for a re-excision surgery that could be avoided if the margins were evaluated
in the operating room during the initial surgery.

Ramanujam’s group was funded under an NIH Bionegineering Research Partnership
grant to develop a portable imaging system to mitigate the need for extra
surgeries. The device uses differences in how various wavelengths of light
interact with breast tissue to spot residual cancerous areas. The technology
has been tested on more than 100 patients to date and is the size of a laptop.

“A successful operation can be thought of an orange, where the tumor is the
fruit and the peel is completely free of cancerous cells, indicating no cancer
was left behind and that this what this technology is designed to achieve,”
explained Ramanujam.

The second research focus is seeking to find a better way to screen cervical
cancer, especially in low-income countries and regions of the United States
where cervical cancer is most prevalent. Current best practices involve
separating the vaginal walls with a speculum and using a bulky, expensive
device called a colposcope from the outside of the body to visually inspect
the cervix for troublesome areas in women with positive Pap smears.

This process is uncomfortable at best for women, and impractical to use in a
community setting. Ramanujam’s solution is to consolidate the colposcope into
a device the size and shape of a tampon and make it speculum free. Such a
device would bring secondary prevention into a primary care setting,
eliminating the need for referrals.

“The mortality rate of cervical cancer should absolutely be zero percent
because we have all the tools to see and treat it,” said Ramanujam. “But it
isn’t. That is in part because either women are not screened or women who are
screened do not seek a confirmatory diagnosis via colposcopy.”

Ramanujam’s team is working on what amounts to a pocket-sized tampon with
lights and a camera. Not only could this allow women to get images of their
cervix themselves, it would open up the possibility of trained professionals a
continent away doing the diagnoses—or even a computer doing it autonomously.

Diagnosis is only the first step of a solution, however, as treatment options
are few and far between as well for remote locations. For that challenge,
Ramanujam is working on a method to deliver gelatinized ethanol to kill
problematic cells, though that work is still in its infancy.

“If we’re going to be finding disease, we have a moral obligation to treat it
as well,” said Ramanujam.

Price, for his part, was very interested in the research and asked poignant
questions throughout his visit. Afterward he remarked, “I’ve been meaning to
visit and learn about these projects for a long time. These technologies need
to be accessible to the layman for them to be effective, and they certainly
seem to be as I was able to follow along easily. You all are doing a great
job.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

