

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# To Shrink the Gender Gap in STEM, Start with Girls’ Math Identity

May 19, 2020

Sophia Santillan's Bass Connections project engages both middle schoolers and
undergrads

_From Duke Bass Connections_

Many young girls love math and excel at it, but at a critical point in their
development, stereotypes and cultural norms can dampen girls’ interest in math
and other STEM subjects.

Sophia Santillan was able to maintain her own love of STEM and is now
assistant professor of the practice in Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science. A three-time Duke alumna (PhD, MS and BS) and an experienced STEM
teacher across levels, she is interested in the effect of emerging technology
and research on student learning and classroom practice.

Since Fall 2018 she has collaborated with Victoria Akin (Math) and Lauren
Valentino (Sociology) to lead a Bass Connections project team called Spatial
Reasoning and Problem-based Learning to Improve Girls’ Math Identity.

“Math identity is the way that a student feels about math and the way they
feel about themselves as mathematicians,” Santillan said. “Our research goals
are to understand what middle school girls and female-identifying
undergraduates think about their role in STEM and their own identity as STEM
researchers and mathematicians.”

In the fall, the 2019-2020 Duke student team members learned about the causes
of the gender gap in STEM, what the landscape looks like for women today, how
to teach math and how to work with middle schoolers. This background prepared
them for the spring, when the team invited middle school girls from Durham
Public Schools to come to Duke’s campus and participate in weekend workshops.

“We do a lot of fun, hands-on math problems and have age-appropriate
discussions about gender, especially as it relates to STEM,” Santillan
explained. “What’s been surprising is how much engagement we’ve seen from the
undergrads – how much they’re sharing their own experiences in the classroom,
talking about what it’s been like to be women in STEM, but also finding the
things we all have in common that led us to be in that room in the first
place. It has been really interesting and rewarding.”

_Check out theteam’s year-end profile in the Fortin Foundation Bass
Connections Virtual Showcase, view the team’s poster to learn about their
research and find out about this project team's plans for 2020-2021._

* * *

## Remarks: Sophia Santillan

**Assistant Professor of the Practice, Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science**

**Bass Connections Project Team:Spatial Reasoning and Problem-based Learning
to Improve Girls’ Math Identity**

_Sophia Santillan has led Bass Connections project teams since 2018. A three-
time Duke alumna (PhD, MS and BS) and an experienced STEM teacher across
levels, she is interested in the effect of emerging technology and research on
student learning and classroom practice._

_Below are excerpts from Santillan’s remarks at a Spring 2020 Bass Connections
orientation for team leaders._

### Supporting Girls in STEM

This project is about girls and their math identity. Math identity is the way
that a student feels about math and the way they feel about themselves as
mathematicians. Our team is working with middle school girls and female-
identifying undergraduates to understand how they feel about math and how to
support them as mathematicians. Our research goals are to understand what
exactly these students think about their role in STEM and their own identity
as STEM researchers and mathematicians.

In the fall semester, we have an undergraduate course where we talk about the
causes of the gender gap in STEM and what the landscape looks like for women
today in STEM fields. We also talk about teaching math and how to work with
middle schoolers.

### Community and Student Engagement

Everything we teach in the fall is training for the spring when we invite
middle school girls from Durham Public Schools to come to campus on weekends
to participate in our team’s workshops. During these workshops, we do a lot of
fun, hands-on math problems and have age-appropriate discussions about gender,
especially as it relates to STEM. In the summer, we hold longer workshops with
more hands-on math and we take the girls on field trips to women’s labs at
Duke to give them exposure to seeing women in STEM fields and environments.

What’s been surprising is how much engagement we’ve seen from the undergrads –
how much they’re sharing their own experiences in the classroom, talking about
what it’s been like to be women in STEM, but also finding the things we all
have in common that led us to be in that room in the first place. It has been
really interesting and rewarding.

### Structuring a Diverse Team

Our team is made up of three team leaders. I am in Mechanical Engineering;
Lauren Valentino is in Sociology; and Victoria Akin is in Math. We also have
two professors in Psychology and Neuroscience who are team contributors who
talk to us about the cognitive differences between men and women and the
cognitive development of adolescents. These collaborators have been guiding us
in thinking about where the middle schoolers are developmentally and in
understanding relevant research.

Each year we have also had one graduate student on our team. This year, our
graduate student has an undergraduate degree in Engineering but now she is
getting her Ph.D. in Sociology, so she is helping us look at the data from our
surveys. We have eight female STEM-major undergrads and one project manager.

### Lessons Learned

Set up one-on-one meetings with each student to see how they are doing

We have learned many things as we have led this team over the past two years.
For example, we have one-on-one meetings with our students to check-in and see
how they are doing. The meetings do not necessarily have to be regular, even
once per semester just to check in with the students and see how they are
feeling about the work.

Try to organize some team bonding events outside of the regular team meetings

One thing students said in these meetings that was helpful is that once the
spring semester workshops started and we transitioned out of a classroom
format, they missed having our more connected undergrad meetings. So, in order
to get our whole team back together, we had a team dinner, and it was just a
really great team bonding experience. We are already planning our team dinner
for the spring.

Consider recruiting team members from students you already know

As far as recruiting goes, I would definitely advise recruiting students that
you know. Both years we have had people that none of the team leaders knew and
these students were great, but the large majority of the applicants we get
were people that we already knew and people we could already vouch for who we
could reach out to and say, “Hey, we think you’d be great for this
opportunity.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

