

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Simple Rules Predict and Explain Biological Mutualism

January 16, 2019

Machine learning model foretells whether symbiotic relationships will thrive
or collapse

Scientists have long employed relatively simple guidelines to help explain the
physical world, from Newton’s second law of motion to the laws of
thermodynamics.

Now, biomedical engineers at Duke University have used dynamic modeling and
machine learning to construct similarly simple rules for complex biology. They
have devised a framework to accurately interpret and predict the behavior of
mutually beneficial biological systems, such as human gut bacteria, plants and
pollinators, or algae and corals.

The research appears on January 16, 2019 in the journal Nature Communications.

“In a perfect world, you’d be able to follow a simple set of molecular rules
to understand how every biological system operated,” said Lingchong You, a
professor in Duke’s Department of Biomedical Engineering. “But in reality,
it’s difficult to establish general rules that encompass the immense diversity
and complexity of biological systems. Even when we do establish general rules,
it’s still challenging to use them to explain and quantify various physical
properties.”

You and Feilun Wu, a graduate student and first author of the paper, addressed
these challenges by examining the behavior of mutualistic systems. These
symbiotic systems are made of two or more populations that provide reciprocal
benefit, such as monarch butterflies and milkweed plants.

Under certain conditions, mutualistic systems can collapse, leading to
devastating ecological consequences. Wu wanted to develop a framework that
could accurately predict and prevent negative outcomes and guide the design of
new synthetic mutualistic systems.

“Because these systems were so diverse, previous frameworks were either only
applicable to specific mutualistic systems, like plant-pollinator or seed-
dispersal networks, or they were too general and didn’t describe the fine line
between conditions that allow the systems to coexist, versus those that force
the system to collapse,” said Wu.

To investigate whether a unifying quantitative guideline could exist for
mutualistic systems, Wu systematically studied 52 differential equation models
that capture the diversity of mutualistic systems. These systems shared the
same fundamental structure: when the collective benefit was greater than the
collective stress, the populations can coexist. If stress is greater than the
collective benefit, the system will collapse.

While it is relatively easy to measure stress in a system, it is more
complicated to measure the collective benefit, which is a function of
variables like cost, individual benefits and other system complexities. You
and his team recognized that attempting to measure the collective benefit
became a bottleneck due to the complex criteria available for measuring, and
that became even more challenging when applied to different mutualistic
systems.

Instead, the team developed a machine learning algorithm to determine the
collective benefit using a few, relatively easy-to-gather variables like
temperature, pH and genetics. The approach resulted in a simplified metric
that can be applied to diverse mutualistic systems.

To test their guidelines, the team used experimental data from three
mutualistic bacterial systems and simulated data to show that their framework
could consistently and accurately predict whether a system would coexist or
collapse. Their rules could also predict quantitative information, including
probability of coexistence, resistance and total population density.

The team is optimistic that their research can be applied to non-mutualistic
biological systems as well. For example, You suggests using their strategy to
examine antibiotic resistance and the conditions that allow resistance to
persist or disappear.

“When we’re working in medicine or biomedical engineering, we realize that
some level of simplification is necessary to understand the interactions of
the communities we’re studying,” said You. “Our procedure showed us that there
is commonality between apparently diverse biological systems, and that’s
essential for allowing us to make the predictions that drive our research.”

Study members include Charlotte Lee of Duke biology and Sanyan Mukherjee in
statistical science, mathematics, computer science, and bioinformatics &
biostatistics, as well as two former You lab members, Allison Loptkin and
Daniel Needs.

This work was supported by grants from US National Institutes of Health
(R01GM098642 and R01GM110494), National Science Foundation (MCB-1412459, DEB
1257882, DMS 17-13012, ABI 16-61386, and DMS 16-13261), Office of Naval
Research (N00014-12-1-0631), Army Research Office (W911NF-14-1-0490), Human
Frontier Science Program (RGP0051), and a David and Lucile Packard Fellowship.

CITATION: “ A Unifying Framework for Interpreting and Predicting Mutualistic
Systems,” Feilun Wu, Allison Lopatkin, Daniel Needs, Charlotte Lee, Sayan
Mukherjee, and Lingchong You. Nature Communications, January 16, 2019. DOI:
10.1038/s41467-018-08188-5

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

