

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sina Farsiu: Processing an Avalanche of Images

August 27, 2014

Advances in image processing algorithms strengthen ties between ophthalmology
and engineering

Sina Farsiu wants to figure out how to peer into your soul . . . or at least
your brain. An expert in designing computer image processing algorithms,
Farsiu is an assistant professor of ophthalmology at Duke Medicine who
recently accepted a primary appointment in the Pratt biomedical engineering
department with the hopes of strengthening collaborations across the
university.

“When President Bush said he looked Vladimir Putin in the eye and got a sense
of his soul, he was actually on to something,” said Farsiu, who has a long
history of collaborating with peers in Duke’s engineering school. “The retina
is part of the central nervous system, and there is a lot you can learn by
looking at it in detail.”

Farsiu’s research focuses on developing computer software and mathematical
theory that makes imaging systems better, either by improving resolution or
how quickly pictures are snapped. His team also writes algorithms that can
autonomously search through the avalanche of data that modern imaging
technology produces to find new disease biomarkers or help clinicians make
better diagnoses.

Just a few applications of his work include finding novel imaging biomarkers
for age-related macular degeneration, probing the visual system for early
warning signs of Alzheimer’s disease and determining the best line of
treatment on a personalized, case-by-case basis for diabetic retinopathy, the
leading cause for blindness in working-age Americans. He’s also making sure
animal control groups are as controlled as the researchers think they are, by
checking individual specimens for ocular phenotypes of genetic mutation that
could influence the outcome of an experiment.

An engineer by training, Farsiu completed an electrical engineering
postdoctoral position at the University of California, Santa Cruz, before
joining Duke Medicine in 2007. He was named an assistant professor in
ophthalmology in 2009, and ever since has been building bridges between the
ophthalmology, computer science, biomedical engineering and electrical and
computer engineering departments on campus.

Among his most frequent collaborators is Joseph Izatt, the Michael J.
Fitzpatrick Professor of Engineering. Farsiu and Izatt work together to
improve the quality of optical coherence tomography—a 3-dimensional microscope
for retinal imaging. Their advancements have produced smaller and more
portable devices with many advantages. For example, clinicians can make more
accurate diagnosis of retinopathy of prematurity. Diagnosed too late, the
disease can cause blindness; diagnosed incorrectly, and the treatment can
cause permanent damage.

“Advancements in medical imaging hardware are both a blessing and a curse. The
technology is extremely valuable, but it is also creating so much data that
clinicians don’t have the time or the capacity to handle it all,” said Farsiu,
who is working with ophthalmologists at Duke Medicine such as Cynthia Toth on
software solutions. “We want to make automated algorithms that can condense
the data into a few quantified measures that clinicians can use to make better
diagnoses.”

While Farsiu has had a secondary appointment in biomedical engineering since
2009, he says that his new primary appointment is an important advancement. He
expects the new appointment to provide better access to medical collaborations
for Pratt students and to engineering opportunities for medical students. He
also expects his new position to make existing ties between the two schools
both wider and stronger.

“Everyone has images and needs help interpreting them,” said Farsiu. “I’m
trying to translate the theoretical advancements being made in imaging
processing into practical and user-friendly innovations that both clinicians
and engineers can use to interpret their data. Duke is an exciting place for
me because it has a wealth of cutting-edge imaging hardware and outstanding
clinicians and scientists. I’m just building bridges between them all.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

