

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New International Graduate Students Take a SLICE of Life in Durham

August 24, 2022

In its second year, the Summer Language Intensive Communication Experience
acclimated a group of new international graduate students to life at Duke and
Durham

The Thursday afternoon before new graduate student orientation officially
began for Duke Engineering, nearly 20 international students gathered with
faculty and staff for lunch at the Eno River State Park. The trip was the
culmination of four days of programming specifically tailored to new graduate
students to help them settle into an unfamiliar culture and country, and it
was the highlight of the program for at least one student.

“The place where we went was a small open shed in the middle of the forest,
and it was so beautiful!” said Mithil Bhuta, a Master of Engineering
Management student from Mumbai, India. “We had a great lunch where we met some
of our faculty, and then we had a team building activity where we made a small
boat and then actually sailed it in the river. We spent a great time at the
river and took lot of amazing photos together!”

Dubbed the Summer Language Intensive Communication Experience, or SLICE for
short, the program aims to help participants acclimate to student life at
Duke, learn more about Durham, and get to know classmates, faculty, and staff
at Pratt. It’s full of interactive and fun activities, including a variety of
tailored communication and intercultural workshops, personalized walking tours
of downtown Durham, a curated exploration of local restaurants and their food
offerings, and, as already mentioned, an afternoon of team-building fun at Eno
River State Park.

From navigating the idiosyncrasies of American dining—what exactly is that
sauce for, anyway?—to becoming familiar with campus and all of the resources
available at Duke, SLICE looks to set international students up for success
from their first day in Durham. Originally launched in 2019, this is only the
second time the program has been offered due to the constraints placed on
colleges everywhere by the pandemic over the last two-plus years.

“We were thrilled to bring such an enthusiastic and diverse group of students
together, where they could begin to build connections with each other and with
us,” said Sue Mathias, director of Graduate Communications and Intercultural
Programs. “We hope SLICE gave them a solid footing here at Duke and in Durham,
as they embark on their new academic adventures.”

And from all accounts, the program met its goals. Students reported gaining
new friendships, connections to faculty, comfort with knowing where to get
information, and a familiarity with campus and Durham.

“I chose the SLICE program to get to know more about Duke culture and maybe
get a head start, as this is my first time in the States,” said Lokesh Sirkali
Suresh Kumar, a master student in biomedical engineering from Tamil Nadu,
India. “To be perfectly honest, every part of the program was engaging and
exciting, so it is difficult to choose just one favorite experience. This is
the most fun I have had in a very long time, as moving to a different country,
let alone a different continent, can be very stressful, and I learned a lot in
the process.”

“I absolutely loved the program. I was able to network and had the opportunity
to create relationships as well,” said Sheevaani Metta, a master student in
cybersecurity. “Apart from that I was able to understand a lot of cultural
differences between India and here, and basically understand the norm, or
rather the vibe, in USA and Duke University.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

