

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Air Pollution Casts Shadow over Solar Energy Production

June 26, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

First study of its kind shows airborne particles and their accumulation on
solar cells is cutting energy output by more than 25 percent in certain parts
of the world

Global solar energy production is taking a major hit due to air pollution and
dust.

According to a new study, airborne particles and their accumulation on solar
cells are cutting energy output by more than 25 percent in certain parts of
the world. The regions hardest hit are also those investing the most in solar
energy installations: China, India and the Arabian Peninsula.

The study appears online June 23 in Environmental Science & Technology
Letters.

"My colleagues in India were showing off some of their rooftop solar
installations, and I was blown away by how dirty the panels were," said
Michael Bergin, professor of civil and environmental engineering at Duke
University and lead author of the study. "I thought the dirt had to affect
their efficiencies, but there weren't any studies out there estimating the
losses. So we put together a comprehensive model to do just that."

With colleagues at the Indian Institute of Technology-Gandhinagar and the
University of Wisconsin at Madison, Bergin measured the decrease in solar
energy gathered by the IITGN's solar panels as they became dirtier over time.
The data showed a 50-percent jump in efficiency each time the panels were
cleaned after being left alone for several weeks.

The researchers also sampled the grime to analyze its composition, revealing
that 92 percent was dust while the remaining fraction was composed of carbon
and ion pollutants from human activity. While this may sound like a small
amount, light is blocked more efficiently by smaller man-made particles than
by natural dust. As a result, the human contributions to energy loss are much
greater than those from dust, making the two sources roughly equal antagonists
in this case.

"The manmade particles are also small and sticky, making them much more
difficult to clean off," said Bergin. "You might think you could just clean
the solar panels more often, but the more you clean them, the higher your risk
of damaging them."

Having previously analyzed pollutants discoloring India's Taj Mahal, Bergin
already had a good idea of how these different particles react to sunlight.
Using his earlier work as a base, he created an equation that accurately
estimates the amount of sunlight blocked by different compositions of solar
panel dust and pollution buildup.

But grimy buildup on solar panels isn't the only thing blocking sunlight—the
ambient particles in the air also have a screening effect.

For that half of the sun-blocking equation, Bergin turned to Drew Shindell,
professor of climate sciences at Duke and an expert in using the NASA GISS
Global Climate Model.

Because the climate model already accounts for the amount of the sun's energy
blocked by different types of airborne particles, it was not a stretch to
estimate the particles' effects on solar energy. The NASA model also estimates
the amount of particulate matter deposited on surfaces worldwide, providing a
basis for Bergin's equation to calculate how much sunlight would be blocked by
accumulated dust and pollution.

The resulting calculations estimate the total loss of solar energy production
in every part of the world. While the United States has relatively little
migratory dust, more arid regions such as the Arabian Peninsula, Northern
India and Eastern China are looking at heavy losses -- 17 to 25 percent or
more, assuming monthly cleanings. If cleanings take place every two months,
those numbers jump to 25 or 35 percent.

There are, of course, multiple variables that affect solar power production
both on a local and regional level. For example, a large construction zone can
cause a swift buildup of dust on a nearby solar array.

The Arabian Peninsula loses much more solar power to dust than it does manmade
pollutants, Bergin said. But the reverse is true for regions of China, and
regions of India are not far behind.

"China is already looking at tens of billions of dollars being lost each year,
with more than 80 percent of that coming from losses due to pollution," said
Bergin. "With the explosion of renewables taking place in China and their
recent commitment to expanding their solar power capacity, that number is only
going to go up."

"We always knew these pollutants were bad for human health and climate change,
but now we've shown how bad they are for solar energy as well," continued
Bergin. "It's yet another reason for policymakers worldwide to adopt emissions
controls."

This work was supported by the US Agency for International Development and the
Office of the Vice Provost for Research at Duke University.

"Large reductions in solar energy production due to dust and particulate air
pollution," Mike Bergin, Chinmay Ghoroi, Deepa Dixit, Jamie Schauer, Drew
Shindell. Environmental Science & Technology Letters, June 26, 2017. DOI:
10.1021/acs.estlett.7b00197

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

