

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Stiff-Roberts Garners Funding for “SENSOR Saturday Academy”

October 31, 2013

Program to give underrepresented minority youth in Durham a taste of
engineering

Scores of Durham County eighth-graders from minority groups typically
underrepresented in scientific careers will soon get to participate in a
practical, hands-on program aimed at sparking their interest in research,
teaching them about engineering and exposing them to the roles engineers play.

Pratt School Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, PhD, has received one of only 12 Student Science
Enrichment Program (SSEP) grants awarded in 2013 by the Burroughs Wellcome
Fund (BWF).

In 2007 Stiff-Roberts—whose research is related to nanotechnology—created and
successfully piloted the Student Engineers Network: Strengthening
Opportunities in Research (SENSOR) Saturday Academy, which the BWF grant will
now fund for three years.

The program will kick off in Fall 2014. Rising eighth-graders will be
recruited during the spring prior to the beginning of each academic year,
Stiff-Roberts says, and there will be an application process.

Like the pilot program, future Saturday Academies will examine the
engineering-design process in terms of water-quality evaluation and
familiarize students with sensors used to measure water quality. Different
24-student cohorts will participate in the academy each year, attending 12
Saturday sessions that culminate with a field trip to the Duke University
Marine Lab in Beaufort, N.C.

The effort will be coordinated with research scientist Glenda Kelley,
associate director for assessment and outreach of the Pratt School’s Center
for the Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT).

“We’re currently working to identify Durham public-school students with an
aptitude for science and math, but who aren’t necessarily on advanced-
placement tracks—students for whom opportunities may be more limited,” says
Stiff-Roberts. “We’re doing the academy on a larger scale this time, and it
will really be integrated with research currently taking place at Duke.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

