

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Studying Superfunds: Duke Environmental Engineers Investigate How Super-
Polluted Areas Affect Early Human Health

July 20, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

As Duke's Superfund Research Center receives another round of funding,
environmental engineers discuss how their work helps us learn more about
common pollutants.

From 1926 to 1992, the waterfront of Portsmouth, Virginia, was home to a wood-
treating facility that used various chemicals to preserve and protect lumber
from decay and insects. But the chemicals from this facility––and the waste it
produced––began to seep into the surrounding land and water, eventually
reaching the nearby Elizabeth River. Recognizing the high level of pollution,
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) listed the area as a Superfund
site––a designation given to polluted areas across the US that pose a threat
to environmental and human health.

Today, researchers at Duke University are using this site, and others like it,
to study how the contaminants from Superfund sites affect human health––and
how we may be able to efficiently clean them up.

The Duke Superfund Research Center (SRC) was established in 2000 after the
university received a grant to study how early, low-dose exposures to various
toxins in Superfund sites affect humans as they develop. Led by Richard Di
Giulio of the Nicholas School of the Environment (NSOE) and including faculty
from environmental sciences, engineering and the medical school, the Center
studies a myriad of common pollutants and issues relating to Superfund--from
the role of certain chemicals in reproduction to the neurotoxicity of
pesticides.

Now, as the center begins its fourth funding cycle, researchers from Duke’s
Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering (CEE) are expanding their
interdisciplinary work to study how they can use bioremediation to limit
exposure or even remove these pollutants from the environment.

**Using Fungi for Cleanup**

Environmental engineers in Duke’s SRC are focusing their efforts on a common
class of Superfund pollutants: polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, or PAHs,
which have been tied to an increased incidence of certain types of cancer.
PAHs are naturally released into the air during forest fires or volcanic
eruptions, but they were also introduced into the environment when we used
chemicals like creosote, a now-banned chemical, to preserve wood or burn
fossil fuels. Lower molecular weight PAHs break down relatively quickly, but
heavier PAHs are harder to get rid of, especially in soil.

“PAHs are difficult to remediate because they are hydrophobic--they aren’t
dissolved in water and they stick to the sediment at the bottom of rivers and
lakes,” says Claudia Gunsch, the Theodore Kennedy Associate Professor in the
Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering and lead researcher of the
PAH Remediation Project at the SRC. “To solve this issue, we’re examining how
we can engineer biofilms to combine both bacteria and fungi to degrade this
class of contaminants.”

Fungi can break down certain molecular structures in PAHs using the same
molecules they use to degrade wood and leaves on a forest floor. As the fungi
break down the PAHs into a simpler form, the PAH by-products become less
hydrophobic and bacteria can then access the contaminants, making it easier to
clear the PAHs from the environment. But so far, nobody has tried to
purposefully engineer fungal-bacterial biofilms to improve PAH degradation
efficacy.

But Gunsch, who studied fungi as a graduate student, was approached by one of
her students who was interested in fungal bioremediation, and together they
devised a method to study how they could alter fungal microbiomes to naturally
clear PAHs. To broaden their efforts, Gunsch teamed up with Helen Hsu-Kim, the
Mary Milus Yoh and Harold L. Yoh, Jr. Associate Professor of Civil and
Environmental Engineering, for the new project.

“In the previous funding cycle we identified strains of fungi in Superfund
sites that we could target,” says Gunsch. “Now, my lab is working to
understand how to stimulate these native fungi with something that can help
their growth and improve how they interact with bacteria.”

Although the primary focus of the project is to study how remediation can
clean up sites contaminated from PAHs, Hsu-Kim and her lab are also looking at
how cleaning up a contaminant can also change a system and create a worse
problem than anticipated.

“If you change the conditions of a system then you also need to understand how
those changes will affect the chemistry of the soil,” says Hsu-Kim. “For
example, if you’re manipulating the soil to make the bacteria and fungi grow
one way, it could affect the mobility of cadmium and zinc that are sometimes
co-contaminants in the soil, and we need to understand the overall
implications of engineered manipulations that target one class of pollutants
so that we don’t accidentally create another problem.”

**Analytical Chemistry Core: Quantifying Toxicity**

In addition to their work with PAH degradation, Gunsch and Hsu-Kim work with
CEE associate professor Lee Ferguson, who runs the Analytical Chemistry Core
in the SRC. The Analytical Chemistry Core, which began in 2012 during the
third funding cycle, uses mass spectrometry and other instrumental techniques
to analyze, identify and quantify the contaminants other groups are studying
in environmental systems. Their work can range from identifying byproducts
like metabolites from PAHs to measuring the toxicology of metals like arsenic
or mercury in Superfund samples.

“The fact that the SRC has been able to create this core to support a number
of lines of research is really a feather in Duke’s cap,” says Ferguson. “It
gives us a rare asset for doing environmental research.”

The Analytical Chemistry Core provides numerous opportunities for Duke
students to engage in the Superfund research. Through the center, students can
work with faculty in each of the center’s projects, and they gain skills in
experimental design and learn how to prepare samples for analysis using mass
spectrometry. According to Ferguson, the SRC also organizes seminars to
enhance the formal training students receive in analytical chemistry.

“In the next funding cycle we are expecting to continue our effort to engage
SRC students in the center’s activities,” says Ferguson. “Ideally, we’d like
to increase opportunities for students with training in analytical chemistry
so they can perform some of their own analyses through the core.”

**Taking an Interdisciplinary Approach**

There are more than 1,300 Superfund sites across the US. Duke is one of just
18 Universities that currently host a Superfund research center to study these
polluted areas.

Each center focuses on understanding the wide-ranging effects of common
Superfund contaminants and other pollutants, but Duke’s unique
interdisciplinary focus is of early life, low-dose exposure to toxins and
consequences for later in life.

“The SRC is a powerful context for interdisciplinary collaboration that
combines microbiology, environmental chemistry and exposure modeling to create
solutions to reduce our exposure to hazardous chemicals,” says Mark Wiesner,
chair of CEE and a collaborator in Gunsch’s PAH Remediation Project. “This
interdisciplinary effort results in a unique capability to provide the science
and engineering solutions needed to protect human health and the environment.”

“A principal mandate of the SRC is to develop strategies for reducing
exposures to hazardous chemicals,” says Di Giulio. “Claudia Gunsch, Helen Hsu-
Kim and Mark Wiesner provide diverse but highly integrated expertise to
address this issue in the context of chemical pollutants that are of great
concern at Superfund sites, and other contaminants from the other projects.”

Although the SRC’s scope has broadened to include potential ways to clear
Superfund contaminants, other health-related projects will continue through
the center’s next five-year funding cycle. One project, led by Ed Levin,
Theodore Slotkin and Frederic Seidler of Duke University Medical Center
(DUMC), will examine how exposure to multiple chemicals affect brain
development. Another, led by Di Giulio and David Hinton at NSOE, will also
focus on PAHs using samples from the Elizabeth River to track how fish from
the site developed a resistance to contaminants––and how that may affect their
health later in life. A third project, led by Heather Stapleton, Ferguson and
Seth Kullman (from NC State) will to examine how common contaminants,
including flame retardants, affect bone and fat development, and can
contribute to obesity. A fourth project, led by Joel Meyer (NSOE) and Susan
Murphy (DUMC) will examine the potential for several Superfund and other
chemicals to act as mitochondrial toxicants and if health consequences persist
throughout life and into later generations.

Although the projects for the next round of funding are just beginning,
researchers in the center are optimistic about what they will glean from their
research over the next five years––and what they can teach others about
environmental health.

“We tend to believe that pollution is someone else’s problem when we don’t
come into contact with dirty water or contaminated soil,” says Gunsch. “I
think that the research from this center shows us that pollution from these
Superfund sites, and pollution in general, is everyone’s problem. It doesn’t
just affect our environment––it affects our health as well.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

