

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Summer Story: Junior Chris Dees Applies Lessons from Graphics Cards to
Computer Processors

June 17, 2014

The Duke electrical engineering and computer science major is trying to
improve the way computers process information

Junior Chris Dee is spending his summer developing ways to make computers more
efficient and cost-effective.

The electrical engineering and computer science major from Singapore is trying
to change the way computers process information by comparing the speed and
efficiency and graphics cards and typical computer processors.

“Instead of processing one query at a time, graphics cards collect 8 to 10 of
them and process them all at the same time in parallel,” Dee said. “I’m trying
to communicate as fast as possible on a normal computer processor to see if I
can make the processor run faster than the graphics card.”

Dee became involved with his research after serving as a teaching assistant
for the computer architecture class taught by Alvin Lebeck, professor of
computer science and electrical and computer engineering. Dee was so
interested in the topic that he asked Lebeck if he could conduct research with
him during the summer.

During one of his projects to enhance a central processing unit, Dee created a
new method to solve mathematical problems in the computer system.

“It seems to run a lot faster than current publicly available methods—more
than 100 times faster than Intel’s,” Dee said. “Since those are pretty
important operations in scientific computing, if everything goes as planned,
I’ll end up writing a paper on this new method and submitting it to algorithm
conferences later this year or next year.”

Optimizing the efficiency of computer processors has implications for all
websites and search engines—like Facebook and Google, Dee said. He said the
research could potentially lower the cost of ownership for server farms, which
are large collections of computer servers maintained by different companies.

“This research right now is to provide proof of the concept—just saying this
is something that is possible to do,” Dee said. “If we can get valid results,
we would potentially start trying to apply it more.”

He added that his favorite aspect of the project is how small changes can
affect the whole group’s research. Changing an individual line of code in his
project can change the way the entire group’s system functions.

Aside from his research, Dee is the treasurer for Duke’s chapter of Design for
America, an organization that supports student-led design studios focused on
education, health, economy and environment. He is also a member of the outing
club and rock climbing team, and has served as a member of E-Team, the Pratt
School of Engineering’s peer advisory group. Dee has also been a teaching
assistant for introductory computer science and engineering classes.

He said he hopes to be involved with research at some point after college when
he pursues a graduate degree, but still has to decide whether he wants to work
with the same types of projects.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

