

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tania Roy: Building High-Energy Space Electronics and Brain-Like AI Hardware

June 21, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Tania Roy brings a research portfolio that complements
existing strengths within Duke’s Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Tania Roy will join the faculty of the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering (ECE) in Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering beginning
January 1, 2023. With a research portfolio branching into both brain-inspired
computer architectures for machine learning algorithms and high-energy
electronics for space applications, Roy is set to complement and enhance many
of the department’s existing strengths.

Roy joins Duke ECE from the University of Central Florida, where she has been
an assistant professor with joint appointments in materials science and
engineering and the NanoScience Technology Center for six years. She earned
her undergraduate degree in electrical and electronics engineering from the
Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, India and her PhD in
electrical engineering from Vanderbilt University before completing
postdoctoral stints at Georgia Tech and UC Berkeley.

Roy’s primary focus for the past six years has been applying emerging
“neuromorphic” computer hardware technologies to machine learning
applications. As the name suggests, this approach is working to create
electronic devices that mimic the behavior of the human brain. Rather than
being constructed only from traditional circuitry such as resistors and
transistors, the hardware also contains building blocks such as “memristors,”
which are resistances that also feature an element of memory.

> “The brain isn’t great at calculating large numbers like a computer, but
> it’s very good at pattern recognition. While we don’t fully understand how
> the brain works, we can model the basic structure of neurons and synapses to
> make them better at pattern recognition. For example, the more times a
> memristor sees the same input, the stronger its response, while inputs that
> don’t repeat become forgotten.”
>
> tania roy

Duke already has a strong program in neuromorphic computing, including the
laboratories of Helen Li, the Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering with a joint appointment in computer science, and Yiran
Chen, also a professor of both ECE and computer science. But while their focus
has largely been on the circuit and architectural levels, Roy says, hers is
seeking to address the challenges from the basic device level to develop novel
hardware. A machine learning algorithm running on this type of hardware could,
for example, make complex programs like voice recognition available on much
smaller devices that don’t connect to the internet.

“The brain isn’t great at calculating large numbers like a computer, but it’s
very good at pattern recognition,” Roy said. “While we don’t fully understand
how the brain works, we can model the basic structure of neurons and synapses
to make them better at pattern recognition. For example, the more times a
memristor sees the same input, the stronger its response, while inputs that
don’t repeat become forgotten.”

The second arm of Roy’s research deals with gallium nitride, a material she
wrote her dissertation on and recently returned her focus toward. Gallium
nitride is a semiconductor that is poised to replace silicon in certain areas
of computer hardware. Because of its physical characteristics, the material is
well suited for high-energy and high-radiation applications, such as those
found outside of the Earth’s atmosphere.

Roy is part of a Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI)
project led by Pennsylvania State University to investigate just how well
suited the material is for extreme environments and how it might be improved.
Roy’s role in the project specifically deals with how resistant gallium
nitride is to the damaging effects of the various forms of harsh radiation
found in space.

“This work has important implications for devices here on Earth as well,” Roy
said. “Solar flares can create ion storms that bombard and damage electronics.
Silicon Valley giants like Intel have radiation effects groups of their own,
so it’s an active field of research.”

At Duke, Roy says her work with gallium nitride fits well with the research of
April Brown, professor of electrical and computer engineering. Thanks to the
state-of-the-art facilities found in the Duke Shared Materials Instrumentation
Facility, Roy can work with Brown and others to develop these alternative
technologies and put their radiation resilience and other properties to the
test.

Outside of the laboratory, Roy says she loves teaching just as much as she
loves research. Back at UCF, she regularly hosted K-12 students for a hands-on
laboratory experience during the summer—at least before the pandemic hit.
Besides picking this pet project back up, she also says she looks forward to
teaching more undergraduate electrical engineering courses than her split
appointment at UCF previously allowed.

“Electrical engineering is where I’ve spent the most time doing my own
research, and I feel like teaching becomes much more efficient if you have
personal hands-on experience with the topic being taught,” Roy said. “I’m
looking forward to teaching at Duke. I hear the students are amazing, and I
think my research will get stronger because of their input.”

“Ever since I came to the United States in 2006, I’ve always thought of Duke
as the Harvard of the South,” Roy added. “Besides always having that
attraction in mind, I’m looking forward to the opportunities the area will
provide my two children. It seems like a wonderful place to live and raise a
family.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

