

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tatiana Segura Named National Academy of Inventors Senior Member

February 20, 2023 | Michaela Kane

The NAI recognizes scholars who are rising stars in their field and are adept
at translating their research into commercial success

Tatiana Segura, a professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University, was
named a Senior Member of the National Academy of Inventors. Senior members are
recognized as leaders in their field with success in patents, licensing and
commercialization, and for producing technologies that have brought
significant positive impact to society.

“As biomedical engineers, the translation of our technologies for the benefit
of human health is always in our mind,” says Segura. “I am deeply indebted to
my lab members who over the years have collaborated with me to brainstorm
better and more ingenious ways to solve problems and drafted the many patent
applications that are required to ensure technologies are translated. I am
also deeply honored that NAI has recognized me as a Senior Member.”

A renowned expert in the field of biomaterials, Segura holds joint
appointments in biomedical engineering, dermatology and neurology at Duke
University. Her lab is centered on developing biomaterials that can harness
the body’s own ability to repair itself. To accomplish this, they design
materials that can form into physical structures that send out biological cues
that encourage surrounding cells to grow. Because the materials used by the
Segura lab are made from natural substances, the biomaterials can be broken
down and removed by the body as the tissue around it heals.

One of the applications of this work is in the brain, where these new
materials could support the growth of new blood vessels in damaged areas,
potentially limiting issues caused by strokes and other damaging neurological
events. They are also developing materials that can be applied to the skin,
with the goal of promoting new hair follicle and sebaceous gland growth, which
could help minimize scarring and aide wound repair.

Segura has worked to bring this work out of the lab and into the marketplace
via Tempo Therapeutics and BESE Biologics, two company she co-founded, which
focus on using biomaterials to treat complex wounds and augment tissue growth
and on implant surface treatments to prevent infection. She was also recently
named the co-director of Duke’s Center for Biomolecular and Tissue
Engineering, where she’ll introduce new programming and training opportunities
to help students become leaders in biotech fields.

Segura will be inducted at the 12th NAI Annual Meeting on June 26, 2023 in
Washington D.C.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

