

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Teaching Physics to AI Makes the Student a Master

May 17, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Incorporating known physics into neural network algorithms allows them to
discover new insights into material properties

Researchers at Duke University have demonstrated that incorporating known
physics into machine learning algorithms can help the inscrutable black boxes
attain new levels of transparency and insight into material properties.

In one of the first projects of its kind, researchers constructed a modern
machine learning algorithm to determine the properties of a class of
engineered materials known as metamaterials and to predict how they interact
with electromagnetic fields.

Because it first had to consider the metamaterial’s known physical
constraints, the program was essentially forced to show its work. Not only did
the approach allow the algorithm to accurately predict the metamaterial’s
properties, it did so more efficiently than previous methods while providing
new insights.

The results appear online the week of May 9 in the journal Advanced Optical
Materials.

“By incorporating known physics directly into the machine learning, the
algorithm can find solutions with less training data and in less time,” said
Willie Padilla, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke.
“While this study was mainly a demonstration showing that the approach could
recreate known solutions, it also revealed some insights into the inner
workings of non-metallic metamaterials that nobody knew before.”

Metamaterials are synthetic materials composed of many individual engineered
features, which together produce properties not found in nature through their
structure rather than their chemistry. In this case, the metamaterial consists
of a large grid of silicon cylinders that resemble a Lego baseplate.

Depending on the size and spacing of the cylinders, the metamaterial interacts
with electromagnetic waves in various ways, such as absorbing, emitting or
deflecting specific wavelengths. In the new paper, the researchers sought to
build a type of machine learning model called a neural network to discover how
a range of heights and widths of a single cylinder affects these interactions.
But they also wanted its answers to make sense.

> “Neural networks try to find patterns in the data, but sometimes the
> patterns they find don’t obey the laws of physics, making the model it
> creates unreliable. By forcing the neural network to obey the laws of
> physics, we prevented it from finding relationships that may fit the data
> but aren’t actually true.”
>
> jordan malof

“Neural networks try to find patterns in the data, but sometimes the patterns
they find don’t obey the laws of physics, making the model it creates
unreliable,” said Jordan Malof, assistant research professor of electrical and
computer engineering at Duke. “By forcing the neural network to obey the laws
of physics, we prevented it from finding relationships that may fit the data
but aren’t actually true.”

The physics that the research team imposed upon the neural network is called a
Lorentz model — a set of equations that describe how the intrinsic properties
of a material resonates with an electromagnetic field. Rather than jumping
straight to predicting a cylinder’s response, the model had to learn to
predict the Lorentz parameters that it then used to calculate the cylinder’s
response.

Incorporating that extra step, however, is much easier said than done.

“When you make a neural network more interpretable, which is in some sense
what we’ve done here, it can be more challenging to fine tune,” said Omar
Khatib, a postdoctoral researcher working in Padilla’s laboratory. “We
definitely had a difficult time optimizing the training to learn the
patterns.”

Once the model was working, however, it proved to be more efficient than
previous neural networks the group had created for the same tasks. In
particular, the group found this approach can dramatically reduce the number
of parameters needed for the model to determine the metamaterial properties.

They also found that this physics-based approach is capable of making
discoveries all on its own.

As an electromagnetic wave travels through an object, it doesn’t necessarily
interact with it in exactly the same way at the beginning of its journey as it
does at its end. This phenomenon is known as spatial dispersion. Because the
researchers had to tweak the spatial dispersion parameters to get the model to
work accurately, they discovered insights into the physics of the process that
they hadn’t previously known.

“Now that we’ve demonstrated that this can be done, we want to apply this
approach to systems where the physics is unknown,” Padilla said.

“Lots of people are using neural networks to predict material properties, but
getting enough training data from simulations is a giant pain,” Malof added.
“This work also shows a path toward creating models that don’t need as much
data, which is useful across the board.”

This work was supported by the Department of Energy (DESC0014372).

CITATION: “Learning the Physics of All-Dielectric Metamaterials With Deep
Lorentz Neural Networks.” Omar Khatib, Simiao Ren, Jordan Malof, Willie J.
Padilla. Advanced Optical Materials, 13 May 2022. DOI: 10.1002/adom.202200097

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adom.202200097?af=R

## Related News

July 27, 2021

### Setting Boundaries Helps Machine Learning Find One-in-a-Trillion Solutions

September 25, 2019

### Machine Learning Finds New Metamaterial Designs for Energy Harvesting

May 01, 2018

### Dielectric Metamaterial is Dynamically Tuned by Light

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

