

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Classes Move Online

March 24, 2020

Duke Engineering faculty members are quickly innovating new ways of delivering
their coursework at a distance

Faced with the challenge of helping to protect their students from the
COVID-19 pandemic unfolding across the globe, Duke Engineering faculty members
had little more than two weeks to figure out how to deliver their coursework
online. Luckily they're engineers, and rapid innovation is nothing they didn't
already have waiting in their toolbox. While updates and adaptations continue
to evolve as teachers and students alike rise to meet this challenge, the
stories emerging from their initial implementations are impressive and
encouraging.

Determined to keep students learning remotely, George Delagrammatikas,
assistant chair and director of master's studies in MEMS, took inspiration
from tech garage startup legends Apple, Google and Amazon and worked quickly
to trick out his own garage. Set up to mimic—as best as it can—the lab he
usually teaches in Hudson Hall, the garage will support master's students in
the MEMS capstone class, who will send Delagrammatikas designs and computer
files for him to 3D-print, prototype, assemble and test.

“We’ll debug, redesign and improve these designs together over Zoom," said
Delagrammatikas. "The students provide the minds, I provide the hands.”

The experiments will be used by all MEMS grads and undergrads in the new
engineering building opening in Fall 2020, while simultaneously fulfilling the
current students' graduate project requirements.

And in another example of creative course changes, senior design students
working on a large animal pulse oximeter with Martin Brooke, associate
professor of electrical and computer engineering, and Nan Jokerst, the J. A.
Jones Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, were
sent care packages from their professors. The packages were mailed directly
from Digikey, an electronic components supplier, and contained materials like
soldering kits that will let the students continue to work on their projects
at home. The pulse oximeters being designed typically use light to measure
tissue properties, but in lieu of working with animal tissue in the lab as in
the past, the students will use Jell-O in their kitchens.

Meanwhile, in the "Introduction to Medical Instrumentation" course, led by
Patrick Wolf, an associate professor fo biomedical engineering, students are
pursuing particularly timely projects as they learn how to build spirometers
(diagnostic tools to measure respiratory flow). Senior lab administrator Matt
Brown set up a makeshift lab in his own home in order to show the device in
action and create datasets for the students to use as they create the relevant
virtual circuits. Brown’s virtual lab is supporting other classes including
Jonathan Viventi’s "Projects in Biomedical Engineering." Prior to Spring
Break, students in Viventi's course had designed circuit boards, but didn't
have a chance to build them. Using Zoom, Brown will work with the different
student teams to assemble and test their projects.

These efforts will be paired with videos created by Marcus Henderson, the
senior laboratory manager in Duke BME. Henderson and his team have been making
videos that demonstrate various lab concepts for students, including a video
for "Biomaterials and Biomechanics" that will teach students how to integrate
accelerations to determine the velocity and traveled distance of a cart pushed
by Henderson.

For the past several years, students in CE132: Engineering the Planet have
built large-scale sculptures made of tubes and cords on the grounds around
Hudson Hall. These “Tensegrity Towers” are defined by islands of compression
(the tubes) within a sea of tension (the cords). By balancing the push and
pull of these elemental components, the system achieves a stable form in which
integrity is derived from internal tension. This year’s exercise in 3D
thinking will be scaled down to tabletop size, said professor of the practice
of civil and environmental engineering David Schaad, and thinks that household
items like chopsticks and straws might stand in for the usual building
materials.

"Making these kinds of changes is not easy, to say the least, either
logistically or emotionally," said Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt
School of Engineering. "But I have been impressed every day by how our
community has drawn together—even as we are physically apart—to figure out
creative ways to continue our vital work of learning, teaching and advancing
engineering research to serve society."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

