

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Three Duke Biomedical Engineers Elected to National Academy of Inventors

December 12, 2017

Izatt, Ramanujam and Vo-Dinh honored for innovative photonics-based health
technologies

The National Academy of Inventors (NAI) has elected three faculty members from
Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering to its 2017 class of
Fellows.

They are: Joseph Izatt, the Michael J. Fitzpatrick Professor of Engineering
and Professor of Ophthalmology; Nimmi Ramanujam, the Robert W. Carr, Jr.,
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Global Health and
Pharmacology and the director of the Global Women’s Health Technologies
Center; and Tuan Vo-Dinh, the Goodson Professor of Biomedical Engineering,
Professor of Chemistry and the director of the Fitzpatrick Institute for
Photonics.

Founded in 2010, the NAI recognizes academic inventors for their prolific
spirit of innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that
have made a tangible impact on the quality of life, economic development and
the welfare of society. With today’s announcement, the Pratt School of
Engineering faculty now includes seven members of the academy, with five from
the biomedical engineering department––professor Ashutosh Chilkoti was elected
in 2014 and professor Jennifer West in 2016.

Izatt’s research focuses on the application of optical technologies for non-
invasive, high-resolution imaging and sensing in living biological tissues. He
is considered one of the leading experts on optical coherence tomography
(OCT), a medical imaging technique that allows researchers to peer beneath the
surface of tissue to diagnose and treat diseases. Izatt’s lab creates systems
for use in noninvasive medical diagnostics, in-vivo tomographic microscopes,
and high-throughput three-dimensional small animal imaging systems for
genomics studies.

Izatt worked closely with Dr. Cynthia Toth of Duke’s Department of
Ophthalmology to develop the first use of a research hand-held spectral domain
OCT system for infant examination and the first intra-operative OCT-guided
ophthalmic surgical system.

"I am very honored to be inducted as a Fellow in the NAI. In our field of
biomedical engineering, patenting and licensing technologies is an important
means by which our basic and translational research can directly impact
society,” said Izatt. “Together with many of my students, trainees, clinical,
and industrial collaborators, I am proud to have patented over 60 medical
imaging technologies, the majority of which are licensed to companies bringing
new patient care technologies to market around the world."

Ramanujam established the Tissue Optical Spectroscopy Laboratory at Duke in
2005, where she developed innovative optical strategies to examine thick
tissues using the principles of optical spectroscopy, optical sectioning
microscopy, and molecular imaging. Utilizing these strategies, Ramanujam and
her team are examining how to create innovations that bring complex referral
services to the primary care setting for cervical cancer prevention,
strategies to mitigate residual disease and recurrence for women undergoing
breast cancer therapy and low cost ablative methods as an alterative to
surgical excision.

Through her work at the Global Women’s Health Technologies Center, Ramanujam
investigates new ways to improve diagnosis and treatment of breast and
cervical cancer, and organizes programs aimed to increase the retention of
women and underrepresented minorities in STEM fields, both locally and
globally. The poster child for Ramanujam’s research is the Pocket Colposcope,
a compact tool that enables healthcare workers to more easily screen for and
diagnose cervical cancer in settings with limited resources.

“It is so exciting to be acknowledged for the work we are doing to improve
women's lives through technology, and in particular our efforts to address the
burgeoning health disparities that exist in medically underserved regions
locally and globally,” said Ramanujam. “It is also great see biophotonics in
the spotlight - I get to share this honor with my outstanding colleagues, Drs.
Izatt and Vo Dinh, who are both pioneers in the field of biomedical optical
imaging.”

Vo-Dinh has pioneered the development of a new generation of gene probes using
a technique called surface enhanced Raman Scattering (SERS) detection with
‘molecular sentinels’ that are able to detect the presence of low abundance
molecules and nucleic acid biomarkers. This technique has been used to improve
the early detection and diagnosis of cancer, with additional applications in
high-throughput screenings and systems biology research.

In addition to his work with the SERS method, Vo-Dinh is developing a novel
multifunctional gold nanostar probe that can be used with multiple scanning
techniques, including PET, MRI and CT to provide physicians with an
intraoperative margin delineation. With over 45 patents, Vo-Dinh has also
developed a wide variety of biophotonics technologies ranging from laser-
induced fluorescence for direct detection of tumors without physical biopsy
and a multifunctional biochip for global health and point-of-care disease
diagnosis to plasmonics systems for nanoparticle-mediated photothermal therapy
and immunotherapy in order to treat cancer and induce a long-term vaccine
effect.

“Recognition by the NAI is the ultimate honor for an engineer and inventor,”
says Vo-Dinh. “I share this honor with all my co-workers, postdocs and
students, who have collectively contributed to all our achievements over the
years.”

“The election of three of our distinguished BME faculty this year to the
National Academy of Inventors is fitting recognition of their outstanding
inventions that are reshaping healthcare globally,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti,
the chair of Duke BME. “To have one faculty member selected by the Academy in
any year is cause for celebration, but to have three selected from our
department in the same year is unprecedented. I am delighted that the Academy
has chosen to recognize these stellar faculty.”

The NAI Fellows will be inducted on April 5, 2018 in Washington, DC. Andrew
Hirshfeld, the US Commissioner for Patents, will provide the keynote address
for the ceremony.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

