

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Together Around the World

November 11, 2020

Bass Connections teams continue to engage globally despite pandemic

Duke celebrates International Education Week (November 9-13, 2020), reflecting
on how the university's global reach has continued despite limits on travel
due to the pandemic. With 18 Bass Connections project teams and two student
research teams conducting international research this year, and many more
teams with students participating remotely from around the world, teams have
had to adapt their research methods and find new ways of developing
relationships with international partners.

This effort has included working collectively to develop research protocols
that enable partners to collect data that is then shared and analyzed by teams
here in Durham. Many teams are also regularly engaging with partners via Zoom
as well as conducting field interviews online. While this shift is not without
challenges, it has also provided teams with new opportunities to conduct field
research at a lower cost and to increase engagement with global partners
throughout the year – not just when the academic calendar permits physical
travel.

In this team profile, students from the Healthcare Provider Education to
Reduce Epilepsy Care Disparities in Uganda project team describe how they have
developed relationships with partners at Makerere University in Uganda and
conducted field interviews via Zoom. They are working to develop an improved
epilepsy education program for Ugandan clinicians that takes into
consideration the country’s healthcare infrastructure and sociocultural
context.

Likewise, the Earthquake Early Warning in Nepal project team continues to work
with partners at the Tribhuvan University Institute of Engineering (IOE) in
Nepal to develop innovative seismic sensing technologies capable of early
detection of a possible earthquake, while also considering the behavioral and
policy landscape for any such system.

Click here to read the full article on the Duke Bass Connections site.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

