

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tomasz Hueckel: A Pioneer in Environmental and Energy Geomechanics

September 10, 2015 | by Ken Kingery

After a long and distinguished career, there aren’t many mechanical properties
of the earth beneath our feet that Hueckel hasn’t had his hands in.

There was a homecoming of sorts at the International Congress CERMODEL -
Modelling and Simulation Meet Innovation in Ceramics Technology – conference
held in Trento, Italy this summer. Tomasz Hueckel, professor of civil and
environmental engineering at Duke University, left an industry job in Italy
when he first came to Durham 28 years ago.

His students and colleagues were ready to welcome him back, as they organized
a special session in honor of Hueckel’s 70th birthday.

“It is a tremendous honor when one’s colleagues make such a designation at a
conference,” said Mark Wiesner, professor and chair of Duke’s Department of
Civil and Environmental Engineering. “Tomasz is internationally known for his
research in geomechanics for nonlinear and time-dependent problems, and he’s
made many important contributions over the years.”

“I consider all of my students a sort of intellectual family,” said Hueckel,
who was pleasantly surprised by the efforts put forth on his behalf. “One of
the biggest satisfactions you can have as a mentor is when you start feeling
envy toward your own students, who continue to move into research that I wish
I had done 20 years ago.”

After a long and distinguished career, there aren’t many mechanical properties
of the earth beneath our feet that Hueckel hasn’t had his hands in. Born,
raised and educated in Poland, Hueckel began his career by developing the idea
of elasto-plastic coupling.

People tend to think of elasticity as a constant property of a material. But
when you look at the microscale forces and processes at work, you can see
fissures or defects that produce changes in elasticity. And the same can be
said for a number of non-mechanical processes like heat flux or chemical
reactions, which also affect elastic behavior, strength and deformation. How
these nearly unnoticeable phenomena build up in materials over time and lead
to degradation and eventual failure is the basic concept of coupled elastic
and plastic behaviors. They include elasto-plastic coupling, thermo-plastic
coupling and chemo-plastic coupling.

Although Hueckel framed the groundwork for these concepts in the 70s and 80s,
it wasn’t until the past two decades that the importance of some of the
concepts became obvious. Thermo-plastic coupling is essential to assessing the
viability of nuclear waste disposal in clays—a popular disposal practice in
Europe. Chemo-mechanical coupling is one of the phenomena involved in carbon
dioxide sequestration in carbonate rocks and fracking.

“There’s an old proverb that says the key to success is to be in the right
place at the right time,” says Hueckel. “I was not as lucky because I was
there, exploring coupled thermo-plasticity and chemo-plasticity, but a little
bit ahead of time. Then again, one of the biggest satisfactions people of a
certain age can have is to have thoughts that you originated come back to
fashion 20 years later. Suddenly you’re the great-grandfather of a field that
you thought had been completely ignored.”

Hueckel’s work is far from being ignored today. He received the 2008 John T.
Booker Medal of Excellence, from the International Association for Computer
Methods and Advances in Geomechanics for “pioneering work in the area of
Environmental Geomechanics, in particular for seminal papers on thermo-
plasticity of geomaterials and on chemo-mechanical coupling.” He was also
awarded an annual 2011 Special Lecturer Award and Medal for exceptional
contributions to geomechanics by ALERT – Geomaterials, an Alliance of European
Laboratories of Research in Geomaterials.

Outside of coupling, Hueckel also worked on liquefaction of sand and cyclic
mobility—a phenomenon related most closely with what happens primarily to
soils in an earthquake. With persistent vibration during earthquakes, water
inside the soil gradually pressurizes until it ruptures the solid structure of
the ground, bringing failure.

He continued his research in Warsaw until 1981, when he and his wife left
Poland a few weeks before the declaration of martial law. The couple moved to
Rome, where Hueckel continued his research in cyclic mobility of soils at the
University of Rome, La Sapienza, before finding himself working in the Italian
energy industry, which was starting at that time a nuclear waste disposal
program.

“It was an extremely useful experience for me,” says Hueckel, who spent more
than six years living in Italy. “I was trained as a theorist, but in industry
I learned that you really have to work together with experimentalists, or else
you’re just dreaming. That isn’t a bad thing in principle, but to produce
things that are useful, you have to have cyclic verification between
theoretical thinking and experimental results.”

After the company he was working for became privatized and more focused on
commercial activity, Hueckel began inquiring into university positions, which
eventually landed him at Duke. According to Hueckel, Duke was a major point of
reference in geomaterials before his time, with the late engineering dean,
Alexandar Vesic, and he wanted to keep it that way. He arrived in 1987 and has
been here ever since. In 1991 he organized at Duke an International workshop
on Stress Partitioning in Engineered Clay Barriers, which brought to Duke
people from 17 countries.

Hueckel’s recent research has been into the effect of various chemicals on the
properties of geomaterials, very much with Italian collaborators. One of the
interesting aspects of that research focuses on crack propagation enhanced by
chemical softening—a process heavily relied upon by the fracking industry to
break through the solid rock to get to underlying natural gas.

“My graduate students and I are trying to figure out how much acid is truly
needed, how forceful the injection should be and how far the acid will travel
underground,” says Hueckel. “The fracking industry does not know exactly how
much acid they need to use to soften the rock, and people usually think they
use too much. My gut feeling is that the industry will go ahead independently
of what we think, but we can certainly help improve and better control the
process.”

Hueckel’s newest research topic is capillary forces. Although it is a well-
established subject in soft condensed matter physics, one important detail has
escaped the attention of physicists: evaporation of capillary liquid. This
plays a key role in the cracking of drying soils and the entry of gas into
granular media.

In this research, Hueckel and his students had to resort to basic tools of
physics theory not commonly studied by engineers.

“One result of 20th century specialization is that there’s a certain amount of
knowledge that students of one discipline are supposed to learn, and others,
like chemistry, are taught at very basic levels,” said Hueckel. “When you look
at phenomena that you do not understand, you think in terms of the tools that
you have been given. But if you don’t have a set of tools in a certain area,
you’ll never think in those terms.”

Hueckel has recently branched out of writing papers and is helping to curate
them. Along with colleague Lyesse Laloui from the Federal Institute of
Technology (EPFL) in Lausanne, Switzerland, Hueckel has launched new Elsevier
journal called _“Geomechanics for Energy and the Environment.”_ As his advice
suggests, the research in the journal is based on multi-disciplinary
approaches to multi-physics—and often multi-scale phenomena—that characterize
many engineering problems related to modern day geomechanics.

For any students hoping to follow in Hueckel’s footsteps as an esteemed
researcher for multiple decades, he has one piece of advice—branch out, adopt
a multi-disciplinary vision of the problems.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

