

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Transcontinental Design in Uganda

April 20, 2016

Duke BME Students Travel to Makerere

Students enrolled in Duke’s BME 590: Transcontinental Design in Uganda course
spent a semester working remotely with peers at Makerere University in
Kampala, Uganda to develop biomedical devices to serve the needs and
situations faced in rural areas of Sub-Saharan Africa.

Over spring break, the class took the opportunity to travel to Uganda
themselves—exchanging weekly Skype calls for a chance to spend valuable time
face-to-face working with their MUK teammates on their projects. The students
also attended class at MUK, visited the Mulago Hospital Engineering
Department, Uganda Industrial Research Institute and a local primary school,
and more.

“It was a very beneficial experience for us to see these places and hear
first-hand about the challenges faced,” wrote Manish Nair, a rising senior
studying biomedical engineering and global health, on the class blog
chronicling the experience. “It gave us a fantastic opportunity to learn about
specific needs of the hospital, and also to gain a better idea of the
conditions and circumstances under which some of our designs would operate.”

The trip and course are part of a new educational partnership between the
biomedical engineering (BME) programs at Duke and MUK forged by Monty
Reichert, the Kaganov Professor of Biomedical Engineering, in collaboration
with Ugandan colleagues after he spent the 2014-15 academic year as a
Fulbright Scholar at MUK.

The partnership’s vision is one of mutual collaboration through the teaching
of BME classes taken simultaneously by students at both Duke and MUK, and by
offering full scholarships to enable MUK BME graduates to study for a Master
of Science degree in BME at Duke. The first two Duke-MUK BME Scholars will
matriculate in August 2016.

“Together, we have the expertise to enable transformational capacity building
in Uganda by training BME professionals and future MUK faculty,” stated
Reichert. “Additionally, this partnership lends itself to giving biomedical
engineers and global health practitioners at Duke University greater
appreciation of key considerations in the design and implementation of
healthcare technologies in low resource settings.”

The Duke-MUK BME Partnership currently has a five-year commitment from both
universities to enhance collaborative teaching and learning experiences.
Program sponsors include Duke’s Department of Biomedical Engineering, the Duke
Office of the Provost, Duke Global Health Initiative, the Pratt School of
Engineering, the Duke Africa Initiative and Bass Connections.

Learn more on the partnership website at sites.duke.edu/dukemuk.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

