

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Triangle Soft Matter Workshop Reunites Materials Researchers in Person

May 18, 2022 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

The symposium drew 180 from Duke, NC State and UNC-Chapel Hill to discuss
polymers, biomaterials and more

The Fitzgerald Center at Duke University was abuzz May 9, as the Duke
Materials Initiative (DMI) welcomed 180 materials science and engineering
colleagues from North Carolina State University and the University of North
Carolina-Chapel Hill for the 14th Annual Triangle Soft Matter Workshop. As the
first in-person version of the event in three years, the pent-up energy to
discuss polymers, biomaterials and more while networking with colleagues
overflowed the auditorium and atrium, spilling outside onto the sunny
Harrington Engineering Quad.

“We’ve got such a fantastic soft matter community in the Triangle, and having
that community back together to share ideas for a day was invigorating for
everyone. We look forward to seeing the great ideas that come out of the
interactions!” said Stephen Craig, William T. Miller Distinguished Professor
of Chemistry, director of the NSF Center for the Chemistry of Molecularly
Optimized Networks and one of the co-organizers.

The full-day event rotates annually among the three universities, but during
the last two years of the global pandemic, it moved online into a half-day
format. Over time, it has helped to establish North Carolina’s Research
Triangle Region as a destination for soft matter research.

Graduate students and postdoctoral fellows occupied as much of the program as
did the three invited speakers—each representing one of the universities—and
the eminent keynote speaker, which is a testament to how committed the
Triangle soft matter community is to train the next generation of materials
scientists and engineers.

All told, 74 graduate students and postdocs lined up to grab the mic and
present two-minute soundbites each about their research on display during the
three poster sessions. After a networking lunch, the auditorium remained
filled through an afternoon of the invited and keynote speakers.

Po-Chun Hsu, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science, represented Duke University with his talk, “Electrochemically Dynamic
Materials for Solar and Radiative Thermoregulation.” Alexander Zhukhovitskiy,
assistant professor of chemistry, represented UNC-Chapel Hill in his talk,
“The Logic of Polymer Synthesis and Degradation.” Adriana San Miguel,
assistant professor of chemical and biomolecular chemistry, represented NC
State University in her talk, “Worms, Chips and Computer Vision:
Unconventional Tools to Better Understand Aging, Stress and
Neurodegeneration.”

Anna Balazs, Distinguished Professor of Chemical Engineering and the John A.
Swanson Endowed Chair in the Swanson School of Engineering at the University
of Pittsburgh and newly elected member of the National Academy of Engineers,
delivered an animated keynote address. An expert in developing theoretical and
computational models to capture the behavior of polymeric materials,
nanocomposites and multi-component fluids, she spoke on the topic, “Chemically
Controlled Shape-Morphing of Elastic Sheets."

“I am thrilled by the quality of all the speakers and the high level of
engagement by participants throughout the day,” said Christoph Schmidt, the
Hertha Sponer Distinguished Professor of Physics, co-founder of the Duke Soft
Matter Center, and another co-organizer along with Stefan Zauscher, a
professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science and director of the Duke Materials Initiative.

## Related News

October 20, 2021

### Duke Soft Matter Symposium Attracts Worldwide Audience

September 02, 2021 | Duke Today

### NSF Creates Polymer Chemistry Optimization Center at Duke for Future
Materials

December 16, 2020

### 2020 Triangle Hard Matter Workshop Was a Resounding Success

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

