

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# For Tropical Rainfall, Timing Is Everything

May 20, 2013 | by Richard Merritt

With changes in the global climate, certain regions of the tropics will likely
experience growing unpredictability of their seasonal cycles of rain and
drought, according to a new analysis by Duke and Princeton University
engineers.

DURHAM, N.C. -- With changes in the global climate, certain regions of the
tropics will likely experience growing unpredictability of their seasonal
cycles of rain and drought, according to a new analysis by Duke and Princeton
University engineers.

While life in these regions has adapted to these cycles, an analysis of more
than 80 years of rainfall data has found that the variability of precipitation
is becoming more unpredictable over time, which could have dire consequences
for agriculture and economies in the tropics.

The researchers studied worldwide rainfall statistics and found three areas
where the trends are the most alarming -- northeast Brazil, western and
central Africa, and northern Australia. These regions experience extreme
seasonal cycles in rainfall -- months with no rain, then periods of high
rainfall. They said a better understanding of this variability can help
policymakers plan effective use of scarce resources.

"While the debate over climate change tends to focus on temperature, we have
demonstrated that changes in rainfall -- especially its seasonal intensity,
timing and duration -- can be just as important,” said Xue Feng, a graduate
student in the laboratory of senior researcher Amilcare Porporato, professor
of civil and environmental engineering in Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering.
She is the first author of a paper published online in the journal Nature
Climate. Princeton’s professor Ignacio Rodriguez-Iturbe was the other
collaborator.

“We project that this increased variability, combined with changing seasonal
trends, if sustained into next century, could lead to significant shifts in
these ecosystems,” Feng said.

Porporato added, “Climate change has altered not only the overall magnitude of
rainfall in these regions, but also its seasonal distribution worldwide. Most
rainfall analyses tend to focus on annual amounts of rainfall, whereas we
looked at the variability throughout the year, which can have dramatic effects
on life in these areas.”

The data collected by the researchers came from 2,175 weather stations in the
Global Historical Climatology Network. The three regions studied -- all
between 20 degrees north and south of the equator -- were selected for study
because their temperatures are relatively similar.

The researchers analyzed monthly rainfall with several statistical techniques,
providing a more detailed picture of the timing and duration of rainfall
throughout the tropics. Over the timescale they examined, they found
statistically significant changes in the trends and seasonal variability for
the locations studied.

“In the tropics, rainfall variability has created an array of different
ecosystems, from dry forests to open woodland forest to savannas, which
support species that have adapted in their own ways,” Feng said. “Most of
these ecosystems are extremely sensitive to not only the yearly rainfall
amount, but also the timing.”

For example, the arrival of rainfall at the beginning of the rainy season
plays a key role in determining when plants start flowering.

“This rainfall seasonality, with its associated drought and flood risks, also
poses a huge challenge to local populations, making agricultural efforts and
sustainable management of soil and water resources more difficult,” Porporato
said.

“The framework we have developed can be broadly adapted not only to seasonally
dry tropical regions, but also to the Mediterranean and areas subject to
monsoons, where rainfall is unevenly distributed,” Porporato said. “The
results can guide strategies for mitigating water shortages and addressing
ecosystem vulnerabilities.”

The research was funded by the National Science Foundation, Department of
Energy, the USDA’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture, and the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

