

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

#  Ugandan Graduate Students Blaze a Trail to Duke

March 29, 2017 | By Ratna Swaminathan

Inaugural Duke-Makerere Scholars look to improve healthcare in their African
homeland by investing in sweat equity through Duke’s BME program

It was with a lot of excitement, and some trepidation, that Kenneth Rubango
and Henry Kiwumulo arrived at the Pratt School of Engineering in the fall of
2016 to begin work towards their master’s degrees as the first Duke-Makerere
Scholars.

Supported by full scholarships, the two came to Duke from Makerere University
in Kampala (MUK), Uganda, as part of the Duke-Makerere Biomedical Engineering
(BME) Partnership. Established in 2014 by Professor William “Monty” Reichert,
PhD, the program aims to give biomedical engineers and global health
practitioners tools to design and implement healthcare technologies in low-
resource settings.

For Rubango and Kiwumulo, Durham was a foreign land. Communication was a
challenge. Nuances in spoken English were baffling, as was the accent.
People’s lifestyles and Duke’s teaching style were not what they were used to
growing up in Uganda.

That trepidation, however, has given way to a successful year and charted a
path that their peers will follow for years to come.

Both graduate students came here with different challenges, but their purpose
was strikingly similar. They recognized an urgent need to improve healthcare
in their African homeland, and were willing to invest in sweat equity to
acquire the knowledge and skills to do so through Duke’s BME program.

Kiwumulo’s path to BME wasn’t straightforward. In around 2003, he contracted
pneumonia that almost claimed his life due to poor diagnostic devices. The
hospital’s X-ray machine malfunctioned and at that time there was no expert to
repair the machine. This painful scenario ignited this 21-year-old’s interest
in healthcare and made him focus his energies on improving the design of
imaging machines.

For someone who always disliked hospitals as a child, Kiwumulo found himself
constantly thinking of how to make healthcare technology in Uganda more
robust. After completing his undergraduate degree in 2006, he joined Philips
Medical Systems, and for eight years gained expertise in maintaining imaging
machines.

In 2014, Kiwumulo joined the BME program at MUK as an instructor. “It’s
through MUK that I met Dr. Reichert who really felt sympathetic with all my
efforts and decided that given further professional BME training, I would make
my dream more successful. That’s how I got finally to this great Duke
University for my MSc in BME,” he informs.

Coming to Duke involved personal sacrifice for Kiwumulo. “The biggest obstacle
was the challenge of leaving my family. I am a married man and have two young
daughters. So, it was beyond the imagination to leave them for a full year.
How would I cope?” He resolved to make his effort count. “I think I am a
focused man,” Kiwumulo asserts, emphasizing his goal to train engineering
students in imaging systems.

Rubango, on the other hand, plans to paint on a wider canvas and have “a high
social impact through medicine.” While his immediate goal is to return to MUK
and teach what he learned at Duke, his long-term aspiration “is to set up a
venture capital firm in Uganda that would provide a platform for translation
to market of high social impact innovations in the academic and non-academic
arena.”

Straight out of high school, Rubango researched BME and realized how this
field would allow him to innovate and solve problems through technology.
Fortuitously, MUK offered its first four-year undergraduate course in BME. “I
was in the first class of BME at MUK in 2011,” he says proudly.

As fate would have it, in 2014, Duke’s Professor Reichert decided to take a
sabbatical year in Uganda and arrived at MUK as a Fulbright Scholar. He taught
six classes in two semesters and helped streamline the curriculum of the
nascent BME program. “Kenneth took several classes from me at Makerere and I
was always impressed with his smarts and work ethic,” says Reichert.

After a lot of groundwork, including organizing funding and constant consults
with colleagues at Duke and MUK, Reichert and Ashutosh Chilkoti, professor and
chair of BME, launched the Duke-Makerere BME Partnership, a collaborative
program to enrich students’ experiences on both campuses across two
continents. Rubango and Kiwumulo were handpicked to pursue their master’s
degree at Duke on full scholarships under the tutelage of BME professors Roger
Nightingale and Kathy Nightingale.

This was a godsend for Rubango. “At the time when I applied, I couldn’t even
afford to pay the fee for the GRE exam,” he says. Besides, studying for the
exam with no personal laptop was daunting. Even the Internet connection was
very expensive, he adds.

Always enterprising, Rubango had the will, and soon found a way. “I borrowed a
laptop and a dongle from friends. After studying for the GRE for three months,
I gave them back,” he says. Duke, meanwhile, took care of all fees and made
the transition as painless as possible.

At Duke, however, it’s not all work and no play for these scholars. Along with
intense brainstorming of collaborative ideas with peers, they are also
experiencing a total immersion in the Duke culture. Rubango plays for the Duke
rugby team and is often seen cheering the Blue Devils at Cameron. Kiwumulo is
deeply religious and enjoys church-related activities.

After their degrees, both scholars look forward to fulfilling their teaching
obligation at MUK. “Kenneth is very much the entrepreneur so he may move onto
other things. Henry, I think, will shoot for a faculty position at Makerere.”
says Reichert.

Armed with Duke credentials and an excitement for the future, the world is
their oyster.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

