

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Understanding Deep Brain Stimulation

June 23, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Duke biomedical engineer Warren Grill wins $4 million Javits Award to
understand and improve Deep Brain Stimulation to treat Parkinson’s disease

For the past 17 years, neurosurgeons have implanted electrodes into the brains
of persons with Parkinson’s disease to deliver a constant barrage of electric
impulses. For many patients, the treatment known as Deep Brain Stimulation
(DBS) immediately relieves the motor impairment caused by the disease.

Unfortunately, nobody really knows why.

Warren Grill, professor of biomedical engineering and neurobiology at Duke
University and member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences, is working to
understand the mechanisms of DBS and use this understanding to develop
innovative improvements to the therapy. And thanks to a prestigious new $4
million grant called the Javits Neuroscience Investigator Award, Grill will
delve further into the mystery than ever before.

The Javits Award is a four-year grant that can be extended to seven years that
is given by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
(NINDS), which is an arm of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The award
is given to scientists for their “superior competence and outstanding
productivity,” and it “provides long-term support to investigators with a
history of exceptional talent, imagination, and preeminent scientific
achievement.”

“The goal of our research is to do a better job at relieving the symptoms of
Parkinson’s disease and essential tremor and to do so with less energy,” said
Grill. “This will allow us to improve patient outcomes and to make smaller and
longer lasting battery-powered implants.”

Previous research has shown that DBS is effective only at frequencies of more
than 100 pulses per second, which quickly depletes the battery of the
implanted stimulator. Grill’s work, however, has demonstrated that lower
frequencies can be effective if an appropriately designed temporal pattern is
used—analogous to a Morse code of electric pulses.

Grill and his colleagues will use the new award to understand the neural
causes of these movement disorders and to determine why different temporal
patterns of DBS work so well. Science’s current best guess is that neurons
begin firing together in patterns of oscillations, which is disruptive to
their normal behavior. Grill believes that using temporal patterns of DBS
suppresses this abnormal oscillatory brain activity, thereby relieving
symptoms.

For the next four years, Grill’s laboratory will combine computational
modeling with recordings of brain activity during DBS to explore the
relationship between temporal patterns of brain activity and the motor
symptoms of Parkinson’s disease. They will also look for new DBS patterns that
are better at treating patients and attempt to determine how they allow the
brain to regain function.

“I am truly honored to receive the Javits award, as it recognizes not only our
accomplishments, but the broader impact that neural engineering technology is
having to advance neuroscience research and clinical care,” said Grill. “The
long runway of support provided by the award will allow us to pursue higher
risk, higher impact projects that we wouldn’t otherwise be able to do.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

