

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Using Invisible Light To See Deeper Into The Brain

October 26, 2020 | Michaela Kane

Neural sensors that use near-infrared light can reveal brain activity deep
within animal models

Biomedical engineers, cell biologists and neuroscientists at Duke University
and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine have developed a new type of
genetically encoded neural biosensor that operates in near-infrared light.

The invention will allow researchers to non-invasively study how neurons fire
at deeper levels in a living brain while simultaneously watching oxygen
consumption.

The research appears on October 26, 2020 in the journal Nature Biotechnology.

“Scientists have been working toward this for a long time, and we’re the first
ones to have done it,” said Junjie Yao, assistant professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke. “Tissue doesn’t absorb or scatter near-infrared light
nearly as much as visible light, which allows the photons to penetrate into
brain tissue deeper than the current standards.”

One of the foremost goals of neuroscience is to link complex behavior, like
the process of making and storing memories, to the activation of various
neurons and structures throughout the brain. One of the ways researchers
accomplish this difficult task is through the use of genetically encoded
calcium indicators, or GECIs. These biosensors carry fluorescent proteins that
dim when there is a calcium spike in a cell, which occurs when a neuron fires.

Researchers have traditionally lit up these biosensors using one- and two-
photon microscopy, which send photons of light into brain tissue. However,
currently available biosensors work in the visible spectrum, which cannot
penetrate the tissue very deeply without being absorbed or scattered. The
resulting chaos prevents researchers from seeing through more than a half
millimeter of tissue.

In the new study, Yao, Vladislav Verkhusha, professor of anatomy and
structural biology at Einstein, and a team of collaborators at the University
of California, Berkeley and Northwestern University, found a way around this
issue. The researchers created a calcium indicator that can be imaged using
near-infrared light, which can more easily penetrate brain tissue. And because
near-infrared light does not interfere with traditional biosensors that
operate in visible light, multiple types of biosensors can be used at the same
time without worrying about their spectral crosstalk.

“Our new calcium indicators are essentially like birds in a forest,” said Yao.
“While birds normally fly around and make noise, when a predator is in the
woods, they go silent. You don’t need to specifically see the predator to know
there is danger, you just know that the lack of sound means that something
there. Similarly with our indicators, you don’t need to specifically see the
neuron firing, you just need to look for the signal: a dimming of the light
emitted from the calcium indicators.”

“I hope that near-infrared neural biosensors will become essential molecular
tools for animal models of human diseases as well as for cognitive
neuroscience studies, allowing us to visualize mechanisms of various emotional
and behavioral regulation in the brain,” said Verkhusha. “Since these
biosensors operate in the near-infrared range, they can be imaged non-
invasively, right through the skull of behaving animals using miniature head-
mounted cameras, allowing us to visualize the brain structures functioning
during specific activities.”

To demonstrate the power of their new calcium indicators in live animals,
Yao’s group at Duke paired them with a second imaging technology called
photoacoustic microscopy. Pioneered by Yao, the technology allows researchers
to combine the properties of light and ultrasound to create high-resolution
images.

The combined fluorescence and photoacoustic imaging showed it would be
possible to simultaneously monitor the neuronal activity and the brain
oxygenation of a mouse brain through its intact skull.

“We have enabled a powerful capability by imaging the brain’s oxygenation and
neuron firing at the same time, two essential pillars supporting the whole
brain’s functioning structure,” Yao said. “While oxygen provides fuel to the
brain, neuron firing delivers the information.”

Yao, Verkhusha and the team are excited to be able to share this new
technology with the wider neuroscience community. As they push forward, they
hope to continue improving both the calcium indicators and the imaging
technology so they can look deeper into the brain.

“We have the potential to use near-infrared calcium indicators to study, for
example, how we process memories in the hippocampus or how Alzheimer’s disease
destroys memory capability,” says Yao. “All of these areas of research can
benefit from having a way to look deeper and deeper into the brain, and for us
the sky is the limit.”

This work was supported by U.S. National Institutes of Health (GM122567,
NS103573, EY030705, EB028143, NS111039, EB027304, CA243822 and MH117111);the
American Heart Association (18CSA34080277)

CITATION: “Bright Near-Infrared Genetically Encoded Calcium Indicator for In
Vivo Imaging,” Anton Shemetov, Mikhail Monakhov, Qinrong Zhang, Jose Ernesto
Canton-Josh, Manish Kumar, Maomao Chen, Mikhail Matlashov, Xuan Li, Wei Yang,
Liming Nie, Daria Shcherbakova, Yevgenia Kozorovitskiy, Junjie Yao, Na Ji and
Vladislav Verkhusha. Nature Biotechnology, Oct. 26, 2020. DOI:
10.1038/s41587-020-0710-1

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

