

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# What's in the Water?

March 20, 2018

Ph.D. student William Gerhard studies the organisms in large ships' ballast
tanks

_From Duke Interdisciplinary Studies_

Ships fill and empty their ballast tanks as needed for stability. Whenever
ballast water is taken on or discharged, aquatic plants and animals go along
for the ride, which increases the risk of introducing invasive species.

William Gerhard is a Ph.D. student in Civil & Environmental Engineering.
Recently he spent a month at the Danish Hydraulic Institute learning how to
incorporate antibiotic resistance genes and pathogens into a global ballast
water movement model. This experience will enhance his dissertation research
on microbes in the ballast water of large ships, and Gerhard hopes this
research will potentially inform policy and regulatory decisions under debate
by the United Nations.

Gerhard was among 18 Duke University students who received **Graduate Student
Training Enhancement Grants** (GSTEG) in 2017-18 from the Office of the Vice
Provost for Interdisciplinary Studies for training beyond their core
disciplines. His faculty mentor is Claudia Gunsch. He shared an update:

_With funding from the Graduate Student Training Enhancement Grant, I_
traveled _to Singapore for an internship with the Danish Hydraulic Institute
(DHI). This company specializes in creating_ modeling _software for hydrologic
systems. In addition, DHI operates the only tropical ballast water testing
facility in the world. My dissertation focuses on the microbial community of
ballast water in large ships, so their expertise in ballast water and_
modeling _proved especially informative to my ongoing work._

_During my time at DHI, I was exposed to science and laboratory work in a
corporate environment. I assisted their researchers in drafting and testing a
protocol that could be used to assess whether their test microbes were
representative of the microbes found in Singapore's natural waters. This
protocol is now being examined by other ballast water testing facilities
worldwide with the possibility of future adoption_ to _the standard protocol._

_Outside of the lab, I was exposed to DHI modeling software, and I learned the
best practices for its use from those who wrote the program. This experience
was especially valuable as I had minimal experience using the model prior to
my time in Singapore. I left with a strong grasp of the program after four
weeks, and several contacts to whom I could reach out in the event of future
troubles._

_The unique opportunity afforded by GSTEG allowed me to explore a potential
future career path while also expanding comfort zones within my dissertation
research._

## About GSTEG

This internal funding mechanism from the Office of the Vice Provost for
Interdisciplinary Studies encourages doctoral and master’s students to step
away from their core research and training to acquire skills, knowledge, or
co-curricular experiences that will give them new perspectives on their
research agendas. Graduate Student Training Enhancement Grants are intended to
deepen preparation for academic positions and other career trajectories.

See who else received these grants for 2017-18. Proposals for 2018-19 were due
February 16.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

