

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# When a 'Pros and Cons' List Won't Cut It

November 25, 2019 | Miranda Volborth

From food choices to land management, Duke engineers wrestle with the
complexities of modeling risk

Imagine a small community of several thousand people, whose traditional diet
is composed largely of locally caught fish.

Now imagine that mercury levels in the fish may increase as a result of
industrial development. The community should stop eating the fish, right?

But what if the community is located in the remote northern part of North
America, and most affordable available alternatives are highly processed or
pre-packaged empty-calorie foods?

Trying to weigh one risk against the other embodies the classic “apples and
oranges” problem. You’d need some kind of tool that could reconcile the two
different risks—increased mercury exposure versus reduced nutritional
sufficiency—in terms of a common unit, so you could directly compare possible
impacts and outcomes.

Enter Ryan Calder, a postdoctoral researcher in the lab of Duke civil and
environmental engineering professor Mark Borsuk, who works to synthesize
complex questions like these into quantitative models that support individual
and policy decisions.

The above problem is a real one, which Calder worked on while completing his
doctoral degree at Harvard in the lab of Elsie Sunderland, a biogeochemist. In
Labrador, Canada, an Inuit community lives downstream of a recently completed
hydropower facility called Muskrat Falls. While scientists have known for
decades that flooding hydroelectric reservoirs accelerates the production of
neurotoxic methylmercury, they have disagreed strongly about the implications
for human health and the effectiveness of risk mitigation decisions.

In the case of Muskrat Falls, these disagreements were compounded by unknowns
about the physical system—there was very little data for impacts on downstream
estuaries, such as the one that serves as the traditional hunting and fishing
territory for indigenous Inuit. When the facility was in its planning stages,
the developer claimed that there would be no impacts at all on the downstream
environment. That raised a red flag for indigenous communities and scientists
alike.

“Flooding for hydropower accelerates methylmercury production, so we were sure
it wasn’t zero risk,” said Calder, who hails from Quebec. But the parties
couldn’t agree on how big the risks actually were, or the best way the protect
the health of the community. “Environmental scientists see what’s happening to
the fish and suggest food advisories. But public health professionals and
nutritionists have been more nuanced—if you say ‘don’t eat the fish,’ what
substitutions might they make, and what risks do those choices pose?”

Calder’s work created a tool for decision-makers to anticipate methylmercury
impacts associated with hydroelectric development, benefits of risk mitigation
strategies and the tradeoffs of food consumption advisories. This work
suggested that, for people who rely on traditional foods for nourishment, the
risks of reducing their intake of local foods exceeded the risks of increased
methylmercury. “On the one hand, it is important to understand that any
increase in methylmercury exposures will increase risks—that is a problem that
needs to be addressed and not ignored,” said Calder. “On the other hand, it is
important not to adopt a policy response that will create even bigger risks.”
(Though neither outcome was desirable, the Muskrat Falls project proceeded—but
that’s another story entirely.

#### Modeling a Messy Reality

These practical decision-making challenges can be incredibly complex because
of the disparate points of view that must be accounted for—not just in the
political sphere, but in the scientific one as well. Disagreements and
disputes between stakeholders that cross traditional disciplines are what
drives much of Calder’s work. He uses tools from risk analysis to structure
much of his work, where risk is classically defined as hazard multiplied by
the probability of occurrence. “But when everything that you’re multiplying is
a whole world of scientific controversy, it gets a little complicated to
produce a globally reliable and rigorous assessment that won’t be destroyed in
peer review,” said Calder.

But the results matter, he added. That’s why he is dedicated to the work, and
why he was recruited by Borsuk’s lab at Duke, called the Modeling
Environmental Risks and Decisions Group, or MERDG.

MERDG takes the complex problems faced by policymakers, individuals and other
stakeholders—which are often posed in terms much more general and subject to
much greater uncertainties than what is anticipated by existing scientific
literature—and strives to provide credible quantitative estimations that can
help them make decisions.

“There are a lot of modeling tools that will describe environments under very
specific assumptions. Reality is a lot messier,” said Calder. “There are a lot
of social factors, and the environment is dynamic and unbounded. We take these
nebulous systems and structure them into quantitative frameworks that can
generate recommendations for action.”

#### Maximizing the Value of Ecosystem Services

For example, military bases across the U.S., though located alongside urban or
suburban communities, are generally huge and sparsely developed. These bases
can provide valuable “ecosystem services” like habitat for plants and
wildlife, recreational opportunities for nearby occupants, and natural
resources like timber. How is that value best preserved and maximized—through
active management, or by leaving the ecosystem to its own devices? How much
are these services worth to the local community, compared to whatever would
occupy the land if the base weren’t there?

In collaboration with colleagues at the Nicholas Institute for Environmental
Policy Solutions, Portland State University and UCLA, MERDG developed a
modeling platform called MoTIVES (Model-based Tracking and Integrated
Valuation of Ecosystem Services) that ascribes monetary value to ecosystem
services and compares how they might gain or lose value under different
management strategies and land-use scenarios.

In its pilot project, supported by the US Department of Defense’s Strategic
Environmental Research and Development Program (SERDP), the group considered
Florida’s Eglin Air Force Base, which supports the largest mature longleaf
pine forest in the world and provides habitat for eight federally listed
threatened or endangered species. Their simulations showed that current
management practices at Eglin, which include prescribed burning and some
timber harvesting, generate higher net benefits than both a “hands-off”
scenario and a scenario in which the base didn’t exist at all. This valuation
calculated that current management activities may generate roughly $90.5
million more per year in ecosystem services for the local community than an
alternative scenario in which the base were closed and developed similarly to
adjacent land—powerful information for decision-making about land use in the
United States, where public investments result in benefits that are often
diffuse and hard to quantify.

Now that the methodology and proof of concept for Eglin have been published,
the group hopes to obtain additional funding from SERDP to apply it more
broadly.

“This project is one of several being pursued by MERDG,” said Borsuk, “that
seek to convert scientists’ evolving knowledge and good faith estimates of
risk and uncertainty, from being excuses for policy inaction into
opportunities to better articulate the value of specific activities that can
be taken to reduce risk. This perspective is needed on issues as diverse as
climate change, biotechnology and artificial intelligence. In each case, there
are concrete actions that could be taken now that both provide immediate
benefit _and_ improve our understanding of what might be required in the
future.”

With professor of law and public policy Jonathan Wiener, Borsuk co-directs
Duke’s new Center on Risk, which focuses on tradeoffs like the ones
characterized by Muskrat Falls and Eglin Air Force base. MERDG is an active
participant in The Bridge Collaborative, a partnership between Duke, the
International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) and PATH, while Calder is
also a member of the North Carolina chapter of the Scholars Strategy Network.
These partnerships play a key role in maintaining the impactfulness and
responsiveness of the MERDG research agenda.

Learn More

## Related News

May 23, 2018

### Risky Business

July 07, 2016

### Mark Borsuk: Valuing the Invaluable, Predicting the Unpredictable

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

