

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Wiesner Named Chair of Duke CEE

March 27, 2015

Mark Wiesner is a recognized leader in the national and international civil
and environmental engineering community

Mark Wiesner has been named chair of Duke’s Civil and Environmental
Engineering Department, effective July 1, 2015.

Wiesner, who holds the James L. Meriam Professorship of Civil and
Environmental Engineering, is a recognized leader in the national and
international civil and environmental engineering community. He brings a
wealth of experience to the position as the highly successful leader of the
Center for the Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT), which
will serve him well as he works to create equal if not greater success for the
department.

In addition to his new duties as chair of CEE, Wiesner will continue his
leadership of CEINT, which began in 2008 and was recently renewed by the NSF
and EPA. His research leadership has earned him recent accolades such as the
2011 NWRI Athalie Richardson Irvine Clarke Prize for excellence in water
research, and his induction this year into the National Academy of
Engineering—one of the highest professional distinctions for engineers. He has
made many important contributions to the research literature since his arrival
at Duke in 2006, primarily focused on the potential for nanoparticles to
accumulate in the environment.

Wiesner succeeds John Albertson, who, along with his wife, MEMS faculty member
Silvia Ferrari, have accepted new positions at Cornell University. Under the
leadership of Albertson since 2009, the department has been set on a solid
path of excellence, vaulting up the U.S. News rankings of environmental
engineering programs, and enjoying a 50 percent increase in new awards for
research.

"I am very grateful for Mark’s willingness to take the reins of the
department, and excited to see where his talents can take it," said Tom
Katsouleas, dean of Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering. "I anticipate that
under Mark’s leadership the department will continue to build on its upward
momentum. Mark’s priorities include a focus on faculty hiring, expanded
program offerings and growth in enrollment of both undergraduate and graduate
students. I also believe his reputation for collaboration will strengthen and
leverage interdisciplinary ties across both departmental and school
boundaries."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

