

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Wiesner and Daubechies Named National Academy of Engineering Members

February 6, 2015

Mark Wiesner and Ingrid Daubechies have been named members of the National
Academy of Engineering, one of the highest professional distinctions for
engineers

Mark Wiesner, the James L. Meriam Professor of Civil and Environmental
Engineering, and Ingrid Daubechies, professor of electrical and computer
engineering and the James B. Duke Professor of Mathematics, have been named
members of the National Academy of Engineering (NAE)—one of the highest
professional distinctions for engineers.

Wiesner, who was cited for “contributions to membrane technologies for water
treatment and understanding of environmental behavior and risk of
nanomaterials,” and Daubechies, who was cited for “contributions to the
mathematics and applications of wavelets,” are two of the 79 new members
selected to join the academy in 2015.

“We’re delighted that two star leaders for Duke Engineering are now officially
recognized as star leaders for the nation,” said Tom Katsouleas, dean of the
Pratt School of Engineering. “With Mark’s contributions to understanding how
nanoparticles affect the environment and Ingrid’s construction of mathematical
wavelets used for data compression, I can’t think of any two more deserving of
the honor. It’s especially exciting, and yet another sign of our school’s
rising stature, that not one but two of our faculty were elected this year—a
first for Pratt.”

Wiesner came to Duke in 2006 from Rice University and helped found the Center
for the Environmental Impacts of Nanotechnology (CEINT) in 2008, which he now
directs. CEINT brings together institutions and researchers from around the
world to explore the relationship between a vast array of nanomaterials— from
natural, to manufactured, to those produced incidentally by human activities—
and their potential environmental exposure, biological effects and ecological
impacts.

Wiesner’s own research focuses on membrane processes, nanostructured
materials, transport and fate of nanomaterials in the environment, colloidal
and interfacial processes, and environmental systems analysis. In 2010, he
helped demonstrate that nanomaterials accumulate in living organisms and can
become more concentrated the further up the food chain they go, revealing the
potential impacts nanotechnology could have on the environment.

"Mark is leading a broad and vigorous international team in the race to
explore these new nanomaterials as quickly as they are being invented,” said
John Albertson, chair of the civil and environmental engineering department at
Duke. “Rather than waiting until environmental impacts have been observed over
years, he is leading an approach of anticipating negative impacts before they
happen. In the future we will look back at this as a turning point in how
environmental engineering research is conducted."

“This is, of course, a very special honor,” said Wiesner. “And it’s an honor
that reflects the incredible students, colleagues and mentors I have been
lucky enough to work with over the years.”

Daubechies came to Duke in 2011 from Princeton University as a professor in
mathematics. She is one of the foremost mathematicians in the world, noted for
developing mathematical constructs called wavelets, which led to image
compression standards now widely used in formats such as .jpg2000s, and
others. Her work has also made significant contributions in the areas of
signal processing, quantum mechanics, discrete geometry and applied
mathematics.

One of Daubechies’s projects since coming to Duke has been working with the
North Carolina Museum of Art and Dutch artist and art historian Charlotte
Caspers to reconstruct a missing panel of an altarpiece by Francescuccio di
Cecco Ghissi, an Italian painter from the 14th century.

Using her expertise in mathematics, Daubechies is helping to artificially age
the reconstructed replacement panel with very precise placement of cracks and
other dating details. By studying crack patterns and other processes on the
older paintings, she can digitally “learn” how they affect the piece and then
transpose that to the recreated piece, so the new art closely resembles its
historic counterparts.

"Ingrid is well deserving of this high honor as a pioneer in developing the
multi-resolution analysis of signals and her continuing work to develop
interesting mathematics motivated by applied problems in art forgery and
restoration and fossil classification," said Harold Layton, chair of the
mathematics department at Duke. "Ingrid also leads by example when it comes to
service and the communication of mathematics, having developed innovative
courses such as Math Everywhere, which brings the beauty and power of
mathematics to a broader audience."

“I am of course very pleased and I feel greatly honored,” said Daubechies. “It
has always been my belief that "applicability" doesn't have to come at the
expense of mathematical rigor or beauty, and I have striven, in my own work,
to identify and then concentrate on problems and questions that tickled the
mathematical fiber in me, while also being truly relevant to engineers and
scientists. It is wonderful for me to see the applications of my work valued
at this highest level.”

As NAE members, Daubechies and Wiesner will help carry out the academy’s
mission of providing engineering leadership in service to the nation. They
join more than 2,400 peer-elected members and foreign members in the NAE,
which serves as an advisor to the federal government and conducts independent
studies to examine important topics in engineering and technology.

Membership in the National Academy of Engineering honors those who have made
outstanding contributions to "engineering research, practice, or education,
including, where appropriate, significant contributions to the engineering
literature," and to the "pioneering of new and developing fields of
technology, making major advancements in traditional fields of engineering, or
developing/implementing innovative approaches to engineering education."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

