

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Willie Padilla: Exploring Technology's "Terahertz Gap"

August 12, 2014

Work has potential applications in cancer detection, military navigation

Metamaterials expert Willie Padilla joined the electrical and computer
engineering department of Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering on
July 1, 2014. Adding to one of the nation’s largest corps of faculty working
with metamaterials, Padilla focuses on developing techniques and devices that
work in the terahertz range of the electromagnetic spectrum—the new frontier
of the information age.

When it comes to modern technology, most all of the world’s devices manipulate
either photons or electrons. Photons—the fundamental particle of light—are at
the center of fiber optics, lasers, cameras and more. Similarly, electrons are
the heart of all computer technology from simple transistors to the most
complex integrated processors.

Electrons work well in the range of radio and microwave frequencies, while
photons operate in the realm of optical and infrared. As devices try to
manipulate these fundamental particles in frequencies further from their slice
of choice of the electromagnetic spectrum, they hit a wall and stop behaving
as asked. And right smack in the middle of their preferred ranges is the
terahertz range.

“There’s a fundamental gap, or at least technology shortage, in the terahertz
range because our existing technology is based on these two fundamental
particles,” says Padilla, who joins the Duke faculty from Boston College. “You
can’t really fill that terahertz gap per se, but you can find ways around it.”

Padilla is a physicist by training, with degrees from San Diego State
University (undergraduate) and the University of California, San Diego
(master’s and doctorate). After completing his thesis, Padilla worked at Los
Alamos National Laboratory, where he helped to build their metamaterials
physics program.

He then joined the physics faculty at Boston College, where he stayed for
eight years. As his research has progressed further from basic science and
more toward applications, however, Padilla decided that an engineering school
was the best place to advance his work.

“My research has been moving more and more toward applied areas, so Duke's ECE
Department is perfect for me and my career,” said Padilla “I’m a physicist by
training, all my degrees are in physics, but I feel engineering is the right
fit for me now.”

Padilla is working to create several applications of imaging devices using
terahertz waves. One is a new way to detect skin cancer. Because cancerous
cells have a different water composition than healthy cells and terahertz
waves are absorbed well by water, a terahertz camera should be able to non-
invasively spot potentially problematic areas.

A second application in the works uses terahertz waves to see through thick
weather obstructions for so-called all-weather navigation. For example, the
number-one cause of death for the military in the Middle East isn’t improvised
explosive devices—it’s helicopter crashes. When a helicopter comes in to land,
it kicks up a lot of dust—especially in desert environments—and pilots lose
sight of the ground. In principle, terahertz imaging could see right through
even a sandstorm.

A third potential use for terahertz technology is personnel screening. David
Smith, the James B. Duke Professor and chair of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, is working to develop a metamaterial imager that uses surface
waves to image people. If the technology could be adapted to the terahertz
realm, not only could security spot concealed objects on passersby, they’d be
able to distinguish whether it was a block of cheese or a plastic explosive.

“Many materials have a distinct fingerprint, so to speak, in the terahertz
range, so you can tell one material from the other based on a terahertz scan,”
says Padilla. “All of these applications are still in a very early stage.
We’ve only started to produce terahertz images at a low resolution. But in
principle, if we can push our technology to higher resolutions and faster
frame rates, we should be able to develop a lot of practical uses for it.”

Outside of the terahertz world, Padilla is joined in the Triangle by his
family. He met his wife, who has a master’s degree in electrical engineering
from Chalmers University, while at Los Alamos National Laboratory. The pair
also has a two-and-a-half-year-old daughter, who takes up most of Padilla’s
time outside of the laboratory. Padilla and his family have settled in Cary
rather than Durham, partly because of a large Scandinavian population there
that can help Padilla’s wife pass her Swedish heritage down to their daughter.

It wasn’t the nearby Ikea in Charlotte, however, that attracted Padilla to
Duke.

“I believe that you should surround yourself with the best people, and Duke
has the best people,” said Padilla. “It’s inspiring being surrounded by
colleagues working on the bleeding edges of their fields. The most important
one to me, though, is imaging in metamaterials, and there’s a nucleus of
expertise here that was the ultimate factor that made the decision for me.
It’s a really exciting time in my opinion to be at Duke engineering.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

