

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Yang Wins 2017 Merritt Science Journalism Award

March 9, 2017

The $500 award recognizes a Duke student for the best piece of science
journalism

Brenda Yang, a PhD student in psychology and neuroscience, has been named the
winner of the 2017 Merritt Science Journalism Award. The $500 award recognizes
a Duke graduate or undergraduate student for the best piece of science
journalism published during the previous calendar year.

Yang’s piece, originally published on ScientificAmerican.com’s guest blog,
featured a personally reflective take on the consequences of telling the
stories of famous scientists as unbroken chains of outstanding success. In
“Are Our Scientific Heroes Too Heroic?”, she drew on psychological research
and her own experiences as both a teacher and a student to argue that tales of
Einsteins and Faradays may inspire greater effort in students if they hear the
full story – that great scientific achievements are usually made only after
often long series of failures.

The judges praised Yang’s work as wonderfully inspiring and self-reflective,
while courageously taking the standard narrative – that famous scientists are
smarter and more successful than the rest of us – and turning its on its head
by arguing we should be telling students more about how our heroes struggled.

The award will be presented on April 6, 2017, at a dinner hosted by the DeWitt
Wallace Center for Media & Democracy in conjunction with the Melcher Award and
Futrell Award programs honoring alumni and student journalism.

The committee also recognized another excellent submission as runner-up –
“Training the Brain’s Motivation Center” an article on neurofeedback research
by Matthew Scult, a PhD student in the Department of Psychology and
Neuroscience. That blog post also appeared on ScientificAmerican.com.

This year’s competition was the third for the Merritt Award, established in
2014 by the Pratt School of Engineering and friends and family of Richard
Merritt, a longtime science writer and media relations specialist for Duke
University. To learn more, visit pratt.duke.edu/merrittaward.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

