

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Yiyang Gong: Lighting Up Brain Activity

September 29, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Genetic sensors can literally illuminate neural signals, allowing researchers
to investigate the fundamental underpinnings of the brain’s communication
system.

Yiyang Gong will join the faculty of the biomedical engineering department in
Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering beginning November 1, 2014. An
expert in nanophotonics, Gong is developing genetic sensors that literally
light up the brain.

Gong began his career designing optical communications devices. While working
on his PhD, he started to explore how he could apply optical technologies to
study biological phenomena. Rather than using light to help people send
information, he decided to use it to understand how neurons send information.

“In between my PhD and postdoc I made a rather large jump into biology, which
in retrospect might have been a little rash,” said Gong, who completed his PhD
and worked as a postdoc at Stanford before joining Duke. “But in the end it
worked out great.”

Long fascinated with the microbiology of the brain, Gong is now working to get
a detailed microscopic view of how neurons communicate with each other. His
goal is to develop genetic sensors that glow in response to neural signals, as
well as the microscopy tools to record these flashes of light within a live
brain.

He has already made significant progress in engineering such sensors—bits of
DNA that can be delivered to neurons, usually through a virus. Once embedded,
the DNA encodes a protein that sits on the cell membrane and responds to
voltages coming from the neuron.

Gong’s goal is to be able to target specific types of neurons—there are more
than 30 in the cortex alone—with his genetic sensors. If sensitive enough, the
sensors should be able to directly record the various types of voltage
waveforms that different neurons create. The past few years have seen Gong
improve the sensitivity of these genetic sensors and successfully demonstrate
their use in cell cultures, intact tissues and, in his most recent paper, a
live mouse.

“Historically, the best way to image neural signals on the cellular scale in
parallel has been by imaging calcium flows, which is sort of a proxy for the
actual neural voltage,” said Gong. “While it is a valuable tool, the method
can’t record certain types of waveforms and can’t isolate single action
potentials except in special preparations, whereas my genetic sensors can do
both. Direct optical recording of cell communications would be a very powerful
tool.”

Already looking ahead, Gong sees many avenues for collaboration across Duke’s
campus. Besides continuing to develop and optimize his genetic sensors, he
will need a hand developing optical tools to record the sensors’ fluorescence
inside living tissue. And once he is able to record those signals, he’ll need
help processing the large amounts of complex data generated.

He sees areas of strength that can help address both challenges in Pratt’s
engineering departments, as well as across campus.

“The neurobiology and neuroscience departments, along with the Duke Institute
for Brain Sciences, are very strong,” says Gong. “And of the faculty I’ve
already spoken to, they’re very open to trying new imaging and optical
technologies. The medical and biology programs also offer great intellectual
resources and opportunities to collaborate.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

