

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Engineering Management Course Descriptions—Online Program

## CORE COURSES

_Note: All Engineering Management course titles begin with "EGRMGMT"_

### 510: Marketing

This course examines core concepts in marketing and marketing-oriented
management. It develops competence in modern marketing techniques and their
application in the design, development, and commercialization of new products
and services in rapidly changing markets. The class combines lectures and
cases, many of which focus on technology-based products and services. Students
learn the frameworks for analyzing market opportunities and product potential.
Other topics include consumer behavior, product management, pricing
strategies, direct and online selling, branding, channel management, and
promotions.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester

### 520: Intellectual Property, Business Law, and Entrepreneurship

Intellectual Property, Business Law, and Entrepreneurship provide students
with the legal and fundamentals to protect their business ventures and
intellectual property. The course is divided into three modules. The first
module focuses on the implication of decisions made at the formation of
business ventures. The second module focuses on the patent process in which
students write their own patents. The third module focuses on the strengths
and weaknesses of patents, copyrights, and trade secrets. Other topics include
principle-agent relations, governance of small companies, mergers and
acquisitions, contract law, patents in foreign countries, and corporate take-
overs.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Spring Semester

### 530: Finance in High-Tech Industries

Review basic concepts of financial accounting and finance, emphasizing
accounting needed for effective financial analysis. Focus on issues of finance
in high-tech industries. Emphases will include project financing, notions of
options applied to internal financial analysis, allocation of costs and
revenues for new high tech projects, valuing projects and valuing firms when
intellectual assets are a significant portion of total level value; corporate
control in high tech firms. Finance issues in mergers, acquisitions, and
alliances.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester

### 540: Management of High-Tech Industries

Management of High Tech Industries is a case-based course that focuses on
managerial decision-making and organization building. With an emphasis on
professional service firms and high-tech companies, students learn to
coordinate and leverage human capital. Tactical, operational, and strategic
leadership is explored. Other topics include entrepreneurial decision-making,
performance measures, managerial control, product strategies, management of
strategic change, and competitive analysis.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall and Spring Semesters

## Electives

Customize your degree with an elective track »

### 512: Product Management in High Tech Companies

In today's international high-tech business environment, the Product Manager
is considered the CEO of their company's particular product or service.
Central to creating customer value are a firm's product innovations and its
portfolio of products and services. The Product Manager must understand the
need to identify and develop strategies that capitalize on the firm's unique
capabilities and provide value to the customer.

In this course, we will explore the entire product management challenge that
goes beyond the typical MBA product marketing and brand management course with
an emphasis on managing products & services in a high-tech environment. We
believe that it is essential that our graduates understand all elements of
product management, including problem identification, market opportunity
analysis, customer needs analysis, product strategy development, technology &
product road mapping, product development, competitive analysis, product sales
& marketing, brand management, financial management, and product life cycle
management. In addition, the course emphasizes developing specific strategies
to support new and existing products and help develop and manage a portfolio
of products and services. This engineering management elective will provide an
in-depth exposure to the analyses, decisions, and implementation issues
relevant to a typical product manager in a high-tech company and help prepare
you for your first industry product management opportunity. A successful
product manager needs a broad set of skills, and this course is the first step
in helping you develop those skills. Your new skills will be developed using a
mix of individual and team-based assignments, case analysis and presentations,
computer simulations and projects.

By the end of this course, you should be able to:

  * Perform a wide range of analyses involved in managing products and
    services
  * Understand the essential elements of product management in a high-tech
    environment
  * Develop product plans, product strategies, and supporting tactical plans
  * Propose and justify marketing plans for a specific product or service
  * Understand the interface challenges between the marketing, sales,
    engineering, operations and management teams
  * Develop a strong understanding of the issues central to product management
  * Present coherent, concise analysis of business cases

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall and Spring Semesters

### 513: Managing Product Development (Previously a 590.XX Course)

How do companies ensure innovative ideas are transformed into a product or
service? Irrespective of their size, location, number of employees, revenue
margin, or industry segment, all companies transform their innovative
strategies into real-world products/services. Some companies have well-defined
transformation steps that they call product/service development process;
others do whatever it takes without organized planning. But in general, they
all go through major iterative phases such as discovery, definition,
development, demonstration, qualification, deployment, and life cycle
management. Furthermore, some factors impact all these phases, such as the
source of funding, people relations, supply chain, design/development tools,
time constraints, internal/external regulations, etc. Adequate management of
these factors enables the development process to be executed on time and on a
budget to meet customer needs and stakeholders' expectations. This course
intends to understand the product/ service/development process elements and
the factors influencing the execution of the process.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Spring Semester, occasionally Fall

### 514: Negotiations and Consultative Selling in Technology

Success in business is dependent upon the ability to positively communicate
with and influence others to accomplish a goal. To paraphrase a famous quote
by Thomas Watson of IBM on this topic, nothing happens in business until a
negotiation is successfully completed or a sale is made. Whether we realize it
or not, we are all negotiating or selling in many aspects of our lives. From
making a decision that affects internal operations within our company,
presenting a proposal to our boss, or closing a sale with a major client, it
is important to have a suite of skills that allow us to achieve our
objectives. This course covers these two primary areas of influence and
communication within a business—negotiations and consultative selling (working
collaboratively with others to effectively meet the needs of a target
customer). These are both highly dynamic areas of personal impact that focus
on one's abilities to understand a situation and then construct the
negotiation or sales process most needed for success in value creation and
goal attainment. This course covers the structured processes, theoretical
constructs, and practical applications that lead to success in both these
areas. The course also explores ethical considerations in both disciplines.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester, occasionally Spring

### 532: Advanced Corporate Finance for Technology-Based Companies

The focus of this course will be on the major financial decisions of
established technology corporations and entrepreneurial ventures. Analytical
models and theories will be covered via problems and cases. Specific areas
will include asset management, short-term and long-term borrowing, advanced
capital budgeting strategies, determination of capital structure, dividend
policy, international issues, and mergers and other forms of restructuring.
Prerequisites: enrollment in the Master of Engineering Management Program.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Spring Semester

### 534: Quantitative Financial Analysis for Technology-Driven Investment
Decisions

A beginner's introduction to the most important concepts used in quantitative
finance. Students will learn to build practical financial models using MS
Excel spreadsheets, and no prior knowledge of finance or MS Excel is assumed.
Investment banks, hedge funds, and money managers make buy and sell decisions
based on computational models. Computers can and do execute buy and sell
orders in a completely automated fashion based on pre-programmed parameters.
This course starts with the most basic and most important portfolio and
investment models used to evaluate risk and identify profit opportunities.
Using Excel, students will learn how to build these models themselves and
understand the decision-making inputs used by professional investors. The
course has a practical focus: Analyzing prices of stocks, bonds, options and
other financial instruments using the types of computationally sophisticated
tools in wide use today.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester

### 542: Competitive Strategy in Technology-Based Industries

Why do some ideas succeed in the marketplace and others fail? The answer often
boils down to strategy. This course is designed to teach the elements of
competitive strategy focusing on the special considerations of technology-
based companies, with particular emphasis on innovation and entrepreneurial
activities in ventures of all sizes. Students will appreciate the strategic
considerations that affect the success of technology-based products in the
marketplace through systematic exposure to key concepts in the analysis,
formulation, and execution of strategic options. The course is structured
along the lines that a company or organization would likely follow to develop
a competitive strategy.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall and Spring Semesters

### 560: Project Management

Projects are one of the key mechanisms for achieving organizational goals and
implementing change, whether it is the design and launch of a new product, the
construction of a new building, or the development of a new information
system.

This course will focus on defining project scope, developing project plans,
managing project execution, validating project performance and ensuring
project control. Additional topics covered include decision making, project
finance, project portfolio selection and risk management.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall and Spring Semesters

### 562: Operations Management

Operations management involves planning and controlling the processes used to
produce the goods and services provided by an organization. In essence, it is
the management of all activities related to doing the actual work of the
organization. Managing these processes can be quite challenging—they are often
very complex and involve large numbers of people and facilities, huge volumes
of materials and great distances.

Objectives of the course are to:

  1. Introduce students to the functional area of operations and increase their awareness of how a firm's operations interface with the other functional areas of the organization
  2. Familiarize students with the various issues and problems that traditionally arise in the management of operations within both manufacturing and service organizations
  3. Acquaint students with some of the terminology, modeling, and methodologies that often arise in handling and resolving operations issues and problems

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester

### 563: Supply Chain Management

A firm's supply chain encompasses all of those processes involving the design,
manufacturing, and delivery of a product to the end customer. In the last 20
years, a combination of industry innovation, new technologies, and academic
research has led to substantial growth in our knowledge and ability to manage
supply chains. Companies in many sectors have realized both the synergies and
the efficiencies that can be gained from solving supply chain problems and
have realized the competitive edge that effective supply chain management
provides.

The objectives of this course are two-fold:

  1. To develop conceptual and modeling skills and to provide practical problem-solving tools applicable to the design and analysis of supply chains
  2. Identify how the existence of multiple (distinct) decision-makers in the supply chain can create misaligned incentives that harm supply chain performance, and then to understand alternative contract structures and other responses that can help mitigate this effect.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Spring Semester

### 572: Innovation Management in Technology-Based Organizations

This course takes students through various issues related to managing
innovation in the context of a technology-based organization. This includes
managing know-how and innovation processes and creating an organizational
culture that fosters and supports innovation. Students study best practices
and benchmarks but must develop their own approach to managing innovation
given each unique situation, including the organizational strategy, the
competitive landscape, the strengths/weaknesses of the employees involved,
etc. Nonetheless, there are accepted practices and concepts that will help
students develop a deeper understanding of this area.

Learning objectives include:

  1. Understanding the different processes related to innovation in a technology-based firm
  2. How to create a culture of innovation in an organization
  3. The critical role of champions
  4. Key concepts of innovation strategy

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Spring Semester

### 574: Commercializing Technology Innovations: Turning Visions into Value

This course is designed to demystify and unify the journey from idea creation
to value extraction through concrete tools and real-world exercises.

Innovations have many sources (e.g., individuals, companies, universities,
governments) and many vehicles for commercialization (e.g., licensing, new
products, enhanced products, and new ventures). Through this course, students
will learn to think more broadly about innovation and commercialization
options and strategies.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester

### 575: Software Quality Management

This class will introduce students to five different business personas that
play a key role in the software development lifecycle. These are customer,
software engineer, software release/quality manager, customer support
engineer, and general manager. The students will better appreciate the
perspectives that each persona brings to their role and how that affects the
"delivered" quality that customers actually experience. The course will also
help students understand how to assess customer business outcomes,
expectations and measure customer experience. Finally, the class will provide
exposure to current industry practices and include guest speakers who can give
real-world examples relevant to software quality management.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester

### 576: Design Thinking and Innovation

The success of established companies and entrepreneurial ventures depends upon
their ability to identify customer needs and then develop products and
services that meet these needs affordably and effectively. A disciplined
design thinking process leads to successful innovations, particularly
concerning value creation and market impact. Starting with an understanding of
empathy, ethnography, and interviewing techniques, moving on to the iterative
process of defining, ideating, prototyping, and testing, and then developing
final designs, this course is a highly engaging opportunity for students to
develop a deep set of skills in design thinking and innovation. It includes
current approaches such as agile development, biodesign, and lean startup.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Occasionally Fall Semester

### 578: Designing Customer Experiences in Technology

In a rapidly changing and competitive global market, businesses must address
complex cross-discipline questions such as "How do I successfully distinguish
my business from competitors?" to remain relevant. Increasingly, the quality
of a business' “user experience" offerings provide the key to securing loyal
customer relationships and sustainable market differentiation. Companies such
as Apple Computer, Starbucks, and Amazon understand that compelling customer
experience is contained not only in the physical products they create but also
in a system of complementary interactions and services. Effective customer
experiences are not created by chance - they are designed. This endeavor
requires systematic observation, evaluation, visualization, planning,
prototyping and principled iteration to be successful. In this course,
students are introduced to foundational design techniques and use case study
discussions, readings, and hands-on projects to form an action framework and
‘personal toolkit’ for designing compelling customer experiences. In addition,
students flesh out this framework through project-based assignments and
presentations applying the principles of design thinking, human factors,
design for usability, and interaction design to analyze, create, and present
effective customer experience solutions.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester

### 579: Using Real-Time Data to Improve Customer Quality Experience

Telemetry is the remote collection of data that is collected and analyzed to
turn data into actional insights. For software quality, telemetry is important
for its use to drive continuous improvements in product quality and customer
experience. The real-time nature of the data and the advent of machine-
learning algorithms have set the stage for a new era of adaptive customer
experience. Telemetry is a by-product of today’s technology trends like
digitization and the Internet of Things, and the class will cover the concepts
behind these trends as they affect the global economy and drive changes in
customer expectations, value delivery and business modes across industries.
Leveraging telemetry requires a solid foundation on data. Therefore, this
class will provide a strong understanding of basic concepts such as data
structures, database types, big data, data quality, and data security.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Spring Semester

### 580: Decision Models

Successful management requires the ability to recognize a decision situation,
understand its essential features, and make a choice. However, many of these
situations - particularly those involving uncertainty and/or complex
interactions - may be too difficult to grasp intuitively, and the stakes may
be too high to learn by experience. This course introduces spreadsheet
modeling, simulation, decision analysis and optimization to represent and
analyze complex problems. The skills learned in this course are applicable in
almost all aspects of business and should be helpful in future courses.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall and Spring Semesters

### 585: Fundamentals of Data Science

In this course, students will first learn the fundamentals of data science,
including core technical vocabulary and mathematical concepts, through
lectures and class discussions. This will include topics such as; (i)
Probability through Bayesian inverse probability and maximum likelihood for
parameter estimation, (ii) Binary classification, the ROC Curve and Area Under
the Curve, the confusion matrix and choice of proper metrics for evaluating
and optimizing classifier performance, (iii) Linear regression for
forecasting, separating signal from Gaussian noise, (iv) Information measures
used in data science, including mutual information, relative entropy (KL
divergence), and log loss (cross-entropy), (v) Experimental design, p-values
and power calculations (vi) The distinct roles of training and test data,
using Hoeffding's inequality to forecast error rates on out-of-sample data.
Students will have the opportunity to apply the above concepts to real-world
data while developing their own models for probabilistic forecasting. _Before
Fall 2017, this course was listed as "Data Mining."_

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester

### 586: New Opportunities in Big Data *(Currently Inactive)

This course is intended for students who have a strong interest in the IT
infrastructure of Big Data.

Topics covered include:

  1. Advanced data-mining methods now possible in business and research
  2. Introduction to software for data-visualization and pattern recognition in Big Data
  3. Information Architecture of the Big Data Cloud—Introduction to the latest technologies for distributed data storage, indexing, search, retrieval, and analysis

Limited to a maximum of 20 students.

**Prerequisites:** 585: Fundamentals of Data Science, or with prior approval
of the instructor.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Spring Semester

### 587: Data Visualization for Engineering Managers

This course teaches how to use data visualizations to improve communication.
We will learn best practices for presenting the kind of discoveries and "calls
to action" that are the primary aims of business data analysis. Everyone who
completes the course will be able to make beautiful and effective data
visualizations.

We will begin by learning about human visual perception, in particular, the
science of how the choice of color, form and other design elements can assist
pre-attentive information processing. We will consider the origins of modern
data visualization in the pre-computer age, starting with overlay maps and
Galton's Quincunx and Correlation Diagram.

We will learn to recognize the 60 or so most commonly utilized types of data-
visualization metaphor, as well as rules of thumb for which are the most
appropriate and effective to apply to different types of data analysis.

Students will learn to create their own visualizations using publicly
available data and free software tools. Students are not required or expected
to have any prior software experience. _The course has no prerequisites._

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Spring Semester

### 588: Machine Learning Principles and Applications for Engineering Managers

This course focuses on understanding how machine learning (ML) works and case
studies of its successful application to a wide range of problem types, from
better forecasting customer behavior to playing Go, to responding
appropriately to human speech. Students will learn the basic mathematical
principles behind establishing reliable ML performance and have an opportunity
to experiment with various ML algorithms and observe how they perform on real-
world data. _The course does not require any prior programming experience._

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Spring Semester

### 590.XX: Managing Product Design

_Managing Product Design: Concept to Realization_ is an opportunity for
students to gain practical experience creating a business and managing a
design team that produces a real product under realistic cost, schedule, and
performance constraints. Students will form a semester-long “company” that
will create coherent business and technical strategies, and design, build, and
demonstrate a functional product prototype. Teams will be assisted by managing
external technical resources and receiving feedback and guidance from an
advisory board.

_Objectives:_ Provide students “a real-life as possible” end-to-end product
design and development management experience with responsibilities in business
operations and technical management, spanning conceptual design to detailed
design, delivery, and presentation; Opportunity to gain realistic experience
building a tangible and functional software and electro-mechanical consumer
product under market, technical, schedule, and budgetary constraints; Offer
project-based experience directly managing designers and other technical
specialists; and Provide students with direct experience in considering and
managing “Design-for-X” (DfX) tradeoffs including, cost, manufacturability,
repair/reuse, and environmental factors.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester, occasionally Spring

### 590.XX: Software Engineering Management

Students learn the application of a systematic, disciplined approach to the
development, operation, and maintenance of software using the Agile manifesto
principles. Software engineering management is the discipline that provides
knowledge, tools, and methods for managing the software requirements,
performing software design, development, test, and maintenance tasks. At the
end of this course, students will be able to: Understand the software
development life cycle (SDLC), Discern the different methods to manage the
SDLC such as: Waterfall, Agile & DevOps, Software Development personas and
tips for successful team management, Software Product definitions, Agile
Software Development methods with focus: Scrum & Kanban, Build and manage an
Agile Software release plan, Use DevOps code life cycle tool for code &
version management, Incorporate a release plan within the Scaled Agile
Framework (SAFE), and software solution metrics & risks. Understanding
software management concepts will allow students to be ready to take on
responsibilities such as software development team management, project
management, Agile development team management, Software Product Manager, or
other related job roles in the Information Technology industry. Most
importantly, it will provide them with the basis for future senior executive
management roles such as CIO, CTO given the critical thinking and decision-
making skills in a technology-based setting learned in class.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall Semester

### 590.XX: Software Business Management

In today’s world, software is pervasive in most if not all companies. Software
business is a commercial activity aimed at producing, buying, and selling
software products or services. Well-run software companies are known for their
high profit margins. This course will focus on understanding the key success
factors for software organizations to drive their portfolio strategy by
mapping out monetization models, pricing, vendor management, professional
services, development & continuous delivery, road mapping & maintenance.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Spring Semester

## OTHER DUKE COURSES

Browse Duke's official schedule of courses »

## Online

  * Duke MEM Online
  * Boeing-Learning Together
  * Curriculum
  * Elective Tracks
  * Residencies
  * Course Descriptions
    * Previous Courses
  * Student Services and Support
  * Meet Our Alumni
  * Tuition and Financial Aid

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

