

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Tuition and Financial Aid

## Tuition

Duke MEM Online tuition for the 2023-2024 academic year is $8,043‬ per course
taken at the university. Students generally take two courses per semester over
four semesters, though we offer flexibility to those who want to extend the
program.

In general, completion of the eight required program courses would result in a
total tuition cost of $64,344. Please note that course credits earned through
the internship requirement do not incur tuition charges.

### 2023-2024 Tuition, Fees, and Estimated Expenses

Tuition $64,344 ($16,086 per semester)*  
Transcript Fee $120*  
Residency Fee $4,035 ($1,345 residency)  
Books $620*  
TOTAL **$69,119**  
  
*Students typically take 2 courses per semester. Tuition, fees, and estimates
subject to confirmation each May.

Domestic students can estimate $438 in loan fees per semester if securing
student loans.

The expected course load for online students is 2 courses (6 units) per
semester and the expected program duration is 4 semesters. Students taking
fewer than 2 courses (6 units) may pay $2,681 per unit.

No tuition is charged for course credits received for an internship,
internship assessment, or residency courses. There is a room and board fee
associated with residency.

There is no charge for course registration.

#### Tuition

Tuition is charged on a per-semester basis, based on two (2) courses per
semester. The tuition per semester for 2023-2024 is $16,086.

#### Transcript Fee

All entering students will be charged in the first semester a one-time
mandatory fee of $120 for transcripts. This fee entitles the student to an
unlimited number of Duke transcripts.

#### Transportation and Parking

Online MEMP students will be responsible for arranging their own travel to
Duke for the three required residencies. Once on campus, parking and local
transportation will be provided. The Residency Fee for 2023-2024 is $1,345 per
residency.

#### Payment of Accounts

The Duke Bursar's Office issues invoices each semester to registered students
four to six weeks before the start of classes. The total due is payable by the
invoice late payment date, which is typically a week prior to the start of
classes. A student is required to pay all invoices as presented and will be in
default if the total amount is not paid in full by the due date. A student in
default will not be allowed to receive a transcript of academic records or
receive a diploma at graduation.

For more information about monthly payment options and more, contact the Duke
Bursar’s Office:

  * Phone: (919) 684-3531
  * Email: bursar@duke.edu
  * Web: finance.duke.edu/bursar

* * *

## Financial Aid

Employer Support, Loans and Veteran's Benefits

Because Duke Engineering Management is a professional degree, most students
pay their own educational costs.

Additional resource options include:

### Employer Support

You’ll gain the most from your Duke education if your organization supports
you.

Here's some advice:

#### Start Now

Obtaining approval will probably take longer than you expect, so allow plenty
of time.

#### Evaluate Yourself

Demonstrate motivation. Plan a career path within your organization. Identify
the skills and knowledge you need to assume more responsibility. As you plan,
anticipate concerns from your employer, such as:

  * How will you manage time away from the office?
  * How will costs be paid?
  * How will you continue to excel on the job?
  * How, and why, does Duke Engineering Management offer greater value than
    other programs? The answers are here »

#### Do Your Homework

Research your organization’s continuing education policy and its approval
process. Discover when you should present your request.

For many organizations, the ideal time is before annual budgets are set.

#### Talk to Others

Speak to colleagues who earned degrees while working. Ask them how their
degrees advanced their careers. Ask managers in your company for advice on
developing and presenting your request.

Ask us to connect you with a recent Duke Engineering Management graduate »

#### Write a Formal Proposal

Prepare a written request. Detail your motivations. Include a personal profile
highlighting your accomplishments.

#### Prepare to Negotiate

Think through concessions you are willing to make. Include them in your
proposal and be ready to discuss them in detail.

Common points of negotiation include:

  * Foregoing raises or bonuses while in graduate school
  * Committing to staying with your company for a specific number of years. (A
    two-year commitment is common)
  * Using vacation days to attend the program's three on-campus residencies

### Educational Loans

Many students take out educational loans. They feel a Duke Master of
Engineering Management will provide an excellent return on the investment.

#### US applicants

US citizens and eligible non-citizens may borrow through the Federal Stafford
Loan Program.

Applicants must first file a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
Complete your FAFSA online at studentaid.gov/h/apply-for-aid/fafsa — Duke’s
school code is **002920**

Browse Duke's list of recommended lenders.

Note: Students awarded Federal loans must make satisfactory academic progress
toward a degree.  

#### International applicants

International applicants are not eligible for Federal loans. However, many
international students take out loans in their home countries.

Many US financial institutions offer loans to international students studying
in the United States. Browse Duke's list of recommended lenders.

### Veterans and Military Benefits

**US Military Members and Veterans** : Review Duke's information for students
preparing to use their VA and military education benefits.

**US Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officers** : See how you can get Duke credit for
your training and service.

## Online

  * Duke MEM Online
  * Boeing-Learning Together
  * Curriculum
  * Elective Tracks
  * Residencies
  * Course Descriptions
  * Student Services and Support
  * Meet Our Alumni
  * Tuition and Financial Aid

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Duke University Graduate Financial Aid

Apply for Aid

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

