

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

# Merritt Science Communications Award

The annual Richard Merritt Jr. Memorial Award for Excellence in Science
Communications recognizes a Duke graduate or undergraduate student who has
produced an outstanding article, video or other media focused on explaining a
scientific topic or research finding during the previous calendar year.

A cash award of $750 will be awarded to the winner each spring.

  * Winning entries
  * How to enter
  * About Richard Merritt

* * *

## Merritt Award Winners

### 2021: Tyler Edwards

### Gather, Share, Teach Episode 2: Dr. Gene Likens and the Origins of Hubbard
Brook

The 2021 Merritt Award Winner is Tyler Edwards, a junior majoring in biology,
for an episode in her podcast titled “Gather, Share, Teach" that introduces
listeners to Gene Likens and the origins of the Hubbard Brook Ecosystem Study.

Although casual listeners may not be familiar with the name Gene Likens, he
has been a giant in the field of environmentalism for decades. Along with his
colleagues, Likens came up with the idea of using detailed chemical studies of
water draining from an ecosystem to help measure its activity and health, much
like analyzing blood for indicators of human health. Since 1955, the long-
running Hubbard Brook study has proven the harmful effects of acid rain and
provided evidence for the passage of the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments, among
many other contributions.

The judges found the podcast to be equally entertaining and informative,
thanks to Edwards’s thorough efforts to provide scientific context alongside
her ability as an interviewer to draw out pertinent, engaging stories from
Likens. The additions of music expository recordings, along with the deft
editing of the interview, left the judges wondering where the 23 minutes had
gone by the time the episode concluded. Balancing information, entertainment
and pacing in a podcast is a difficult task, and the judges thought Edwards
made the juggling act seem effortless.

### Honorable Mention: Yuexuan Chen and Imari Walker Karega

The committee also recognized Yuexuan Chen, a senior studying biology, and
Imari Walker Karega, a PhD candidate in civil and environmental engineering,
with Honorable Mentions.

Chen was recognized for her article "Life in the 'Cabin': Two Months Fighting
COVID-19 in Wuhan,” which takes readers on an insider’s journey through the
whirlwind faced by health care workers in Wuhan in the early days of the
COVID-19 pandemic. The judges were impressed with Chen’s ability to capture,
in depth, the firsthand experience of a provider on the front lines of the
pandemic through interviews conducted in Mandarin, which she wove into a
gripping narrative that never loses the reader along the way.

Walker Karega was recognized for her YouTube video, “10 Facts You NEED to Know
About Microplastics,” which teaches viewers about the growing environmental
and human health issues arising from tiny pieces of plastics. The judges loved
Walker Karega’s flair for entertaining presentations of a serious subject, her
combination of clear explanations backed by clearly presented scientific
references, and her infectious passion for the topic.

### 2020: Meredith Schmehl

### Which Weighs More, a Pound of Stone or a Pound of Styrofoam?

The 2020 Merritt Award winner is **Meredith Schmehl** , a PhD student in the
Department of Neurobiology, for her Scientific American article that takes a
common riddle and turns it on its head, leading readers to a surprising
conclusion.

While one might expect the answer to be that both weigh the same, Schmehl
takes readers through research that reveals that a pound of Styrofoam
insulation actually feels heavier to a person than a pound of stone, when
compared side-by-side, and the theories behind why this phenomenon exists.

The judges found the topic intriguing and enjoyed the element of surprise in
the counterintuitive answer. Both the topic and the writing appealed to a wide
audience, explaining scientific topics in an approachable manner while
simultaneously conveying difficult concepts. The judges also appreciated that
the article wrapped up by tying the research to a real-world application—how
these concepts might be applied to recommendation-making algorithms for
consumers.

### Honorable Mention: Jessica Wang

The committee also recognized **Jessica Wang** , a junior majoring in
environmental sciences, with an Honorable Mention for her YouTube video
“Sieyken: A Community at the Brink of Change.”

The judges thought that the video was beautifully framed and shot. Ambitious
and tightly edited, the video showcased the impact of climate change on a
community, providing a powerful message and documenting the effects on the
ecosystem and people for the historical record.

### 2019: Madeline Go

### Duke Conservation Tech: Open Tag Project

The 2019 winning entry is a rich video that beautifully weaves together
graphic animation, still photography, drone and underwater footage and
original interviews to share how a team of Duke students designed (and re-
designed) a low-cost, open-source tracking tag to facilitate diving animal
research in developing areas.

The judges were impressed with the variety of skills Ms. Go, an undergraduate
majoring in biology, brought to the project. The resulting piece not only
clearly explains the design process and engineering challenges, but tells a
well-paced and visually compelling story—and does a great job conveying the
Duke Conservation Tech team’s passion for their work.

### 2018: Aaron Reuben

### States May Be Intentionally Poisoning Each Other With Toxic Air

Judges felt that the well-structured and beautifully written “States May Be
Intentionally Poisoning Each Other With Toxic Air” stood out amongst a strong
group of contenders to earn the top prize of the 2018 Merritt Award. Written
by Aaron Reuben, a graduate student in clinical psychology, the long-form
piece was originally published on the Vice website Tonic that covers wellness,
science and big-picture health issues. The piece explored the implications of
a study finding that most air polluting facilities across the United States
have been systematically sited at state downwind borders, where the particles,
soot, and heavy metals they pump out will be carried to neighboring states.
The judges felt the article flawlessly weaved a wide range of scientific
research and sources together with vibrant characters that brought what
otherwise could be a dry topic into the human realm.

### Honorable Mention

The committee also recognized **Alex Rudee** as a runner-up for his strong
submission “What Happens When the Saguaros Disappear?” It was published as a
blog post by the National Parks Conservation Association. The piece explores
how climate change is slowly diminishing one of the Southwest’s iconic plants
while bringing in insightful viewpoints from local Native American cultures.

### 2017: Brenda Yang

### Are Our Scientific Heroes Too Heroic?

Judges selected the thought-provoking "Are Our Scientific Heroes Too Heroic?"
from among several strong entries to be the winner of the 2017 Merritt Award.
Originally published in the guest blog on ScientificAmerican.com, the article
was written by Brenda Yang, a PhD student in psychology and neuroscience. Her
article is a meditation on how the manner in which stories of scientific
success are told may change the performance of students studying science.
Judges praised Yang's inspiring and self-reflective work, which included
references to her experiences as a teacher and a student.

### Honorable Mention

The committee also recognized **Matthew Scult's** "Training the Brain's
Motivation Center." The article also appeared on ScientificAmerican.com. It
presents an engaging first-person look at neurofeedback research in the Adcock
Lab at Duke.

### 2016: Rosa Li

### Young Daredevils: Children Are Just as Willing as Teenagers to Take Risks

From among several strong entries, the judges selected “Young Daredevils” as
the winner of the 2016 Merritt Award.

Originally published on Slate.com, the article was written by Rosa Li, a PhD
student in psychology and neuroscience, and featured her own research. The
judges praised the entry as a well-written, solidly reported, compelling and
highly accessible piece that provides an excellent model for other researchers
who wish to share their work with the general public.

### Honorable Mentions

The committee also recognized two excellent submissions as runners-up:

  * The Worm Turns, by biology PhD student **Sheena Faherty**. The article was
    originally published in The Philadelphia Inquirer.
  * Building Batteries from the Microstructure Up, by civil engineering PhD
    student **Andrew Stershic**. The article was originally published in
    DEIXIS, the annual magazine of the U.S. Department of Energy Computational
    Science Graduate Fellowship program.

### 2015: Lambrou and Latner

### Ebola Chat

EbolaChat, a video by undergraduate students **Anastasia Lambrou and Joshua
Latner** , was selected as the winner of the inaugural Merritt Science
Journalism Award.

The judges cited the entry as a creatively produced, accessible and compelling
video that met its goal of educating high-schoolers and other members of the
general public about Ebola thanks to the team’s sound understanding of how to
communicate clearly about a complex scientific topic.

### Runners-Up

The committee also recognized two excellent submissions as runners-up:

  * Can Humans Hibernate? Ask the Dwarf Lemur, a Scientific American blog post
    by biology graduate student **Sheena Faherty**
  * Engineering Low-cost Methods to Assess Water Safety in South Africa, a
    series of posts on the Duke Global Health Institute Diaries from the Field
    Blog by biomedical engineering major **Brittany Davis**

* * *

## How to Enter

### Eligibility

Any type of media (text, video, infographic, animation, etc.) focused on
explaining scientific research to a general audience:

  * Personal blog entries, video uploads, or other publicly accessible
    creations
  * Written stories must be at least 500 words long; stories in combined or
    other formats are also eligible
  * Must be produced by a current undergraduate or graduate Duke student
  * Must have been published or broadcast during the previous calendar year
    (Jan. 1 to Dec. 31)

NOT Eligible: Research reports or journal articles intended for a primarily
scientific audience.

### Selection

The award committee, comprising Duke research communications leaders, will
evaluate each entry based on:

  1. Clarity in explaining the science/research, and
  2. Ability to engage a lay audience in the subject matter

### Deadline

The 2021 submission deadline is **Monday, March 1**.  

### Submit Online

Use our online form to submit your entry.

ENTER NOW

### Contact

For questions about the award, please contact Minnie Glymph, communications
director for the Pratt School of Engineering.

## About Richard Merritt

Richard Merritt was a longtime writer and media relations specialist for Duke
University and Duke Health, with 25 years of service at the time of his death
in 2013. He truly loved telling the story of Duke scientific research and did
much to advance the university through his contributions over the years. The
Richard Merritt Jr. Memorial Award for Excellence in Science Communications
was established by his family, friends, and colleagues to honor his memory.
For more information or to contribute, please email pamela.hanson@duke.edu.

## Contact

### Minnie Glymph

Executive Director of Communications & Marketing  
Pratt School of Engineering

minnie.glymph@duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

