

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Nathan Singer

Class Year:

2018

Job Title / Company:

Project Manager / Cooper Tire

 **Briefly describe your d-MEMP experience, including the impact on your
career.**

The d-MEMP program was the perfect program for me. I wanted to complete my
graduate degree quickly, yet not give up my full-time position. I also wanted
the opportunity to network and engage with other students all over the world.
The Duke d-MEMP program was the perfect solution. The on-demand classes, the
video lectures, the group projects, and the residencies were a great
combination to make this program a success.

This program has given me confidence to further my career. Achieving a degree
from Duke was always a far-fetched dream of mine. Now, it has become a reality
and it has laid a great foundation for me to pursue a career with no limits.

**How did the program's flexibility suit your needs? How were you able to
manage the program with your work/home life?**

The ability to watch the lectures at my availability was very appreciated. I
traveled a few times to different countries during the program, so having the
ability to download the lectures and watch when internet access was limited
was helpful. Also, the professors were flexible as well with my travels and
adjusted submission dates to help accommodate delayed flights, busy working
hours, etc.

**What advice would you give to prospective applicants?**

The advice I would give others is to immediately apply what you are learning
to your job. Since I was working full-time during this program, I was able to
do this and it made my experience more impactful and rewarding. School didn't
feel like a chore anymore with that mindset. I hate to say it, but school was
kind of fun! When we finally have the opportunity to apply what we learn, the
rewards we reap are satisfying. Since I had the privilege to do that while
taking classes and working full-time, it made the experience even more
exciting.

## Online

  * Duke MEM Online
  * Boeing-Learning Together
  * Curriculum
  * Elective Tracks
  * Residencies
  * Course Descriptions
  * Student Services and Support
  * Meet Our Alumni
  * Tuition and Financial Aid

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

