Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# About Senol Utku

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Awards & Honors
  4. Senol utku award

Dr. Senol Utku

A graduate of Istanbul Technical University in 1954, Senol Utku earned his
graduate degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (S.M. in 1959
and Sc.D. in 1960).

Following his graduation from MIT, he remained in Cambridge as a visiting
assistant professor, and then moved onto positions at Middle East Technical
University and Istanbul Technical University before joining the Jet Propulsion
Laboratory as a senior research engineer in 1965. In 1970, he joined the Duke
Department of Civil Engineering, and by 1979 was a full professor with a
secondary appointment in computer science.

Professor Utku advised more than 10 Ph.D. dissertations. He served as the
director of undergraduate studies for seven years, and director of graduate
studies for three years. Over his career he taught 15 different courses,
including CE204 Plates and Shells, CE 254 Systematic Engineering Analysis,
CE131 Theory of Structures, EGR 51, and 52 computational engineering courses,
which were the precursor to the modern day EGR 53. He has been an
inspirational mentor to younger faculty. He retired from Duke in 2002, and now
resides in Istanbul.

His research contributions are in the areas of dynamics of structures,
structural optimization and methods of permutations for factorization of block
tridiagonal matrices, real-time control of geometry and stiffness in adaptive
structures, optimal location of redundants for prestressing adaptive trusses
in spacecrafts, adaptive base isolation system for the control of seismic
energy flow into buildings during earthquakes and a general idea of
incorporating intelligence into engineered products as adaptive structures.

A fellow in the American Society of Civil Engineers, Utku authored nine books,
among which the latest "Theory of Adaptive Structures" traces indeed a
trajectory of future developments in structural mechanics, while the most
classical “Elementary Structural Analysis” by Utku, Charles Head Norris, John
Benson Wilbur was a fourth edition of a textbook, which educated generations
of structural engineers. Utku also published over 60 widely referred to peer-
reviewed journal articles.

Senol Utku Annual Awards

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

