

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# 2015 Alum a finalist in the Duke Startup Challenge

September 24, 2015

Aditya Sharma, a 2015 Duke MEMP graduate, is among ten finalists competing for
the grand prize of $50,000 in the 2015 Duke Startup Challenge finale.

Aditya Sharma, a 2015 Duke MEMP graduate, is among ten finalists competing for
the grand prize of $50,000 in the 2015 Duke Startup Challenge finale. The
event is at 7pm on Wednesday, September 30 in Fuqua’s Geneen Auditorium. His
startup, iEdulyf, is a digital learning resource that aims to enable equal
opportunity education to all students in India. View the investor pitch video
or read the summary below.

Introduction

Edulyf is a digital learning resource that aims to enable equal opportunity
education to all students in India. It provides educational resources tailored
to entrance examinations for higher education and/or jobs in the Government
sector.

Entrance exams in India are the most crucial step toward a student's career.
These exams are not coach-proof. Success in these exams ensures a place in a
reputed college or university or a well-paid job and a rewarding career. A
rising throng of private sector, expensive coaching institutes has tipped the
scale in favor of students from affluent households, who are already
advantaged with their private school education and privileged upbringing. The
issue that Edulyf combats is the unfairness of the education system as a
whole, and attempts to equalize the field for students from poor economic
backgrounds.

Edulyf was founded in June 2013 by two co-founders. Now, it is a team of 20
employees. Edulyf employs two different approaches to exploit these available
channels for maximum impact.

1\. Online Approach:

This approach is directed to maximize the use of our website and associated
platforms (mobile and tablet applications). Students who can afford computer
and internet connection can benefit from this approach.

2\. Offline Approach:

Edulyf team wanted to reach needy students outside the internet. Hence, the
offline approach was employed, which involved directly reaching out to local
schools and conducting educational sessions by showcasing digital material and
video lectures in offline mode, thus sidestepping the need for internet.
Currently Edulyf classes runs in 17 schools of India. We have recently
collaborated with 940 schools in state of Rajasthan.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

