

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Alumni Profile: Seeing the Bigger Picture

December 1, 2013

As an Industrial Engineering student at the South China University of
Technology in Guangzhou, China, **Mengxi Lu** focused on mastering the
technical skills he knew he would need in the workforce. Upon graduating and
starting a small business with a friend to help non-profits in China, he
realized that while his technical skill set was sound, he really needed (and
wanted) a stronger business background in order to transform his technical
ideas into sound business plans. A little research led him to realize that a
Master of Engineering Management (MEM) degree was exactly what he needed – a
bridge between his technical base and the soft, business skills he needed in
order to reach his career goals.

After graduating from Duke’s MEM in 2011, Mengxi Lu is currently a Senior
Media Solutions Analyst at comScore in the DC area. In his role, Mengxi Lu
researches the way people interact with search engines. For example, he may
analyze the rate at which people do or do not click on a sponsored ad that
pops up on the side of an internet search. He will then share that information
with the company that has hired comScore to provide them with market research
which informs their future marketing approaches.

When asked how MEM helped prepare him for his role with comScore, Mengxi Lu
had lots to say. “I learned all of the technical stuff in undergrad, but what
MEM offered me was insight into the bigger picture – how I can leverage these
data and technical skills in a way that leads to better solutions.” Mengxi Lu
also appreciated the networking opportunities he had while in MEM. “MEM taught
me how to network. In my job I have to talk to different kinds of teams all
the time. Because I was able to talk to people from tons of different
industries while I was in MEM, I am able to do that comfortably now.”
Additionally, Mengxi Lu felt that his practicum experience afforded him a
great opportunity to work on a team with people from all kinds of backgrounds
– something he does regularly in his job.

Mengxi Lu is an excellent example of an MEM student who took full advantage of
everything MEM and Duke had to offer. Through his coursework, connections with
people from various backgrounds, and focus on building strong communication
skills, Mengxi Lu prepared himself for the job search process and for his
current role as research analyst.

**Mengxi Lu**  
MEM Class of 2011  
BSE Industrial Engineering, South China University of Technology

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

