

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Alumni Profile: Taking on Technical Sales

May 29, 2013

### JaRet Watkins, MEM ’10

Those computers with modules the size of refrigerators? The ones that can fill
a whole room that needs its own air conditioner, like you remember from 1980s
movies? They’re called mainframes.

IBM still builds them for the world’s top banks, insurance companies, and
other enterprises where 45 seconds of downtime could cost tens of thousands or
millions of dollars. If you’re an executive at an enterprise like that, JaRet
Watkins thinks you should buy one, too, and he will be happy to arrange it. He
sells them for a living.

“We call it IBM System Z because it’s near zero downtime,” explains the
Chicago-based technical sales representative. “Banks and insurance companies
keep all their transaction data on here, because they’re designed to be
reliable and available for business purposes. We can take what you have on a
whole farm of Linux servers, a hundred or two hundred servers, and put all
that on one mainframe.”

> “My job is a blend of the highly technical, including research on the
> intricacies of mainframe systems, and talking with customers and senior
> management, finding ways to show them it would be financially beneficial for
> them to upgrade now. So having both the engineering background and the
> business skills of the management program have really helped.”
>
> JaRet Watkins

The machines are manufactured to exacting standards and are redundant upon
redundant. If a chip should fry inside the machine – unlikely, Watkins
stresses – a backup chip will automatically take over, and the mainframe will
send an electronic signal to IBM, which will send a technician to install a
replacement. And the technician can make the repair without turning off the
system.

That robustness removes risk for business executives, and so it has tremendous
value to companies. Therefore, it doesn’t come cheap, and that means Watkins
routinely brokers major deals, hitting sales targets around $4 million per
quarter. The position is his first after completing his master’s in
engineering management at Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering in
2010 (he also holds a Duke bachelor’s in biomedical engineering.)

Originally from Orlando, Florida, Watkins considered the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and Northwestern University before choosing Duke.

“I had known for a while I wanted to do engineering,” he says. “My mother was
a math teacher, and I was always good in math and science, and so it was
natural. If I came to Duke, I knew I could pursue either engineering or a
career in business, which was what I was leaning toward. I wanted the
technical background and an engineering degree.”

The engineering management master’s program pairs technical engineering
courses with marketing, management, and finance classes – “like a mini
business school for engineers.” Watkins focused his studies on the information
technology industry. He did group projects creating a marketing plan for an
early-stage children’s “edu-tainment” toy, developed strategic options for
integrating the global information technology and communication platforms of
the Duke Clinical Research Institute, and helped write a business plan for an
anesthesia vapor alarm product for a medical technology company.

He also interned in the Duke Office of Licensing and Ventures, where he
researched commercialization opportunities for new biomedical technologies,
writing opportunity reports about possible real-world applications for
university research.

But perhaps the most valuable skill he uses daily from his Duke education is
the ability to learn quickly and efficiently all the time, he says. And
emphasizing that helped him land his position with IBM.

“Having a degree from the Pratt School of Engineering, people knew I had the
capacity to learn, and that was important,” he says. “Once you get a job,
you’re not going to know everything that the job requires. You’re going to
have to learn to do the job well.”

And Watkins says his Duke engineering education taught him how to discern
which information is most important: “I learned how best to harness
information, to sip from a fire hose, to extract the relevant fact or piece of
data. The engineering program showed me how to process a lot of information
quickly and effectively.”

The program chair of the National Society of Black Engineers and president of
Kappa Alpha Psi fraternity while at Duke, Watkins enjoys step-dancing. He also
likes to ski and snowboard and plays the guitar.

Watkins is gaining valuable sales experience now, he says, and down the road,
he hopes to launch his own venture. He may have an innovative idea in mind,
but he declines to elaborate.

“Eventually I want to own my own tech company and realize some of my
passions,” he says mysteriously. “I particularly love consumer technology.”

JaRet Watkins  
MEM Class of 2010  
BSE Biomedical Engineering, Duke University

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

