

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Duke Engineering Management Students and Alumni Talk Data Science at Silicon
Valley Meet-Up

August 6, 2018 | By Daniel Egger

Duke Master of Engineering Management students and alumni gathered at Uber
world headquarters in San Francisco for dinner, conversation, and
presentations on novel data science challenges.

A group of Duke Master of Engineering Management (MEM) alumni and current
students gathered at Uber world headquarters in downtown San Francisco on the
evening of Monday, July 23 for the 2nd annual Silicon Valley meetup. We shared
dinner, conversation, and short presentations on some of the novel data
science challenges our MEM alumni are currently working on at Uber.

Attendees represented almost every graduation year from 2009 to 2019. We had a
great mix of new faces, along with returnees from last summer’s gathering at
Airbnb. We also had a great cross-section of the current energy in Silicon
Valley, featuring people employed at venture funds, banks, consulting firms,
and high-tech startups, as well as Airbnb, Facebook, Google, Salesforce, and
of course Uber. It was fun to get a sense of the fascinating work our
graduates are involved in, and the very rapid career progress possible today
for those whose work touches on data science.

Our Uber hosts were welcoming and great speakers.

**Venos Sourmelis, MEMP ’13,** who had organized the event, talked about the
complexities of his work managing traffic flows for Uber in and out of San
Francisco International Airport. Uber handles 65 percent of all auto transport
services there.

**Tucker Risman, MEMP ’14,** talked about how Uber calculates estimated times
of arrival (ETAs) and optimal routes thousand of times for each trip. The map
data behind this service is in constant development, and requires a high
degree of local knowledge for every city around the world where the company
operates.

**Aditya Binaykia, MEMP 14,** works in product development for the “Uber eats”
meal delivery service. He described the many choices involved in determining
how restaurant menus are displayed, and explained the complex tradeoffs Uber
faces in determining what restaurants are within a reasonable delivery radius
for any given customer address.

The overall impression I took away from the Uber presentations was of a
company tackling fantastically complex real-time data-analysis challenges,
with obsessive dedication to mastering every possible detail of the data that
drives their business.

It was great to reconnect with my former Teaching Assistants and students, and
to meet new people who appreciate their connection to Duke and the MEM
program. Anyone who attended this event would come away with the sense that
Duke’s Master of Engineering Management Program is ideal preparation for an
exciting and highly-successful data science career in Silicon Valley.

_Daniel Egger has more than 17 years experience creating new software products
and services, as founder and CEO of a series of venture-backed information
technology companies, and as Managing Partner in a venture capital fund. Egger
is Executive in Residence in Duke University’s Master of Engineering
Management Program and has taught courses in entrepreneurship and venture
capital at Duke since 2003. He was formerly the Howard Johnson Foundation
Entrepreneur-in-Residence in Duke’s Markets and Management Program for
undergraduates._

## Duke Courses taught by Daniel Egger

  * EGRMGMT 590: Data Visualization
  * EGRMGMT 590: Fundamentals of Data Science
  * EGRMGMT 590: New Opportunities in Big Data

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

