

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Arpita Dutta: Improving the Digital User Experience

January 27, 2023

The December 2022 Engineering Management master's graduate interned with AI
technology developer NVIDIA

**Home Country:** India

> "We always hear about keeping users at the center, but Duke helped me to
> practically step into their shoes through a lens of empathy.
>
> **Arpita Dutta |** Master of Engineering Management

What was your best experience at the Pratt School of Engineering?

Duke's Pratt School of Engineering and its Master of Engineering Management
(MEM) program gave me the opportunity to explore and identify my interests.

I had the option to choose from a diverse set of courses and extracurricular
activities that opened me up to new experiences and molded my career path.

What was your favorite course?

My favorite course was 576: Design Thinking and Innovation. Coming from an
engineering background, this course really helped me transform my way of
thinking and approach toward problem-solving.

We always hear about keeping users at the center, and this course helped me
practically step into their shoes through a lens of empathy.

Where did you do your internship?

My internship was with NVIDIA as a product management intern for the AI
platform and infrastructure team. My projects focused on improving the
platform's user experience by implementing new features and developing
strategic proposals for enhancing the platform.

Courses like Design Thinking, Management of High-Tech Industries, and
Marketing and Product Management helped me successfully deliver value to my
team and the organization.

What are your career aspirations?

The Duke Master of Engineering Program (Duke MEM) program helped me identify
product management as the career path I would like to pursue. After graduating
from Duke, I hope to continue on this path and learn and contribute more to
this domain and the industry I step into.

What advice would you give to students considering Duke Engineering?

Participate and enjoy the broader Duke community and everything it has to
offer. There are a lot of opportunities that cater to varying interests. You
just need to put in some effort to find the right ones that best suit you and
your interests.

The Master of Engineering Management is a degree program in Duke Engineering's
Institute for Enterprise Engineering. To explore all its education programs,
visit ene.duke.edu »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

