

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# "Big Data" Collaboration Big Experience for Students

July 8, 2013

By Jeni Baker

Practicum pairs Duke’s Master of Engineering Management students with the
global Parsons Corporation to address real-world issues.

Jim Shappell was on an airplane last winter the first time he gave “big data”
much serious thought.

Like many people, Shappell, Parsons Corporation’s Group Executive for Strategy
and Business Development, was becoming familiar with the concept of big data.
But some in-flight reading really got him thinking about its implications for
the architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) industry—in which Parsons
is a multinational leader.

Not long after, Shappell contacted Parsons Corporate Vice President Andrew
Berger.

## Putting Pratt students on the case

“Jim wanted to know if big data was something we needed to be thinking and
doing something about—whether we could apply this leading-edge topic to our
business,” Berger recalls. “We discussed how big data might be relevant to our
industry and how valuable it could potentially be to Parsons, as well as to
our clients, contractors and industry teaming partners.”

At the time, Berger was working with Joseph Holmes—director of the Consulting
Practicum Program(CPP) offered by Duke’s Master of Engineering Management
Program (MEMP)—to identify a topic for the Spring 2013 practicum Parsons was
sponsoring.

Berger, also a member of the MEMP industrial advisory board, has served as the
face of Parsons throughout its long partnership with the Pratt School of
Engineering at Duke—and has sponsored a practicum every semester since CPP’s
2005 inception.

“We define a question or problem—something Parsons wants to explore but may
not be able to assign internal resources to—and Joey and I turn it into a
course description,” he says. “I manage each practicum as I would a real-world
consulting assignment.”

Berger contacted Holmes and they quickly agreed that the topic should be big
data.

“My top criterion when working with Pratt’s corporate sponsors is that the
students work on real issues that our partners want to address,” Holmes says.
“We strive to identify outstanding, cutting-edge projects for every team.”

Holmes called upon Jim Sund, a colleague at management-consulting firm Acuity
Edge, to coach the team weekly from January to May. An active CPP mentor, Sund
says the MEMP’s diverse practicums offer students “a unique opportunity to
help address challenges for real companies—and a cost-effective way for
sponsors to procure high-quality work from bright and motivated Pratt
students. They also really help differentiate those students as job
candidates.”

Berger agrees. “Working with Joey and [Pratt Associate Dean of Corporate and
Industry Relations] Russell Holloway has been an incredibly effective
relationship that’s benefited both Parsons and the students.”

## Implications of big data for the AEC industry: The team’s findings

CPP teams are required to provide their corporate contacts with a proposal,
work plan and estimate at the start of every project; to regularly update
those contacts on their progress; and to deliver a live presentation and
companion report at the end of the project. Teams typically invest more than
800 cumulative hours to complete a project’s research, analysis and strategic
elements.

In this case, the team presented to Berger and others in Parsons’ Charlotte,
NC, office. In addition, team member David Vanderschaaf, who served as the
primary liaison with Parsons throughout the semester, was asked to give an
additional presentation at Parsons’ quarterly executive conference at the
Pasadena, Calif., corporate headquarters in June.

The team made several key recommendations, which “weren’t so much about ways
for Parsons to use or leverage big data,” explains Vanderschaaf, “but ways
that they can pursue a range of industry-specific opportunities that now exist
because of big data, such as data-center construction and ‘smart building’ and
‘smart city’ projects.”

By all accounts, Vanderschaaf’s presentation went well and the Parsons execs
were impressed with the team’s work.

As for next steps, Berger says the immediate opportunity for Parsons is “to
use our global capability and expertise to design and build the data centers
and communications infrastructure that will be needed to store and move big
data for our customers.”

“In the intermediate term, we’ll continue to investigate the types and sources
of big data that may become relevant and useful to our infrastructure clients
and projects,” he adds. “As it matures, big data seems to have the potential
to add almost limitless new dimensions to the basis of the design itself.”

* * *

## MEMP's Consulting Practicum Program: By the numbers

  * Launched in **2005** , the program has offered more than **60** practicums
    involving some **300** MEMP students.
  * **More than 30** corporate partners have sponsored practicums.
  * **More than one-third** of MEMP students take part in a practicum.
  * Parsons Corporation has sponsored **17** practicums involving **nearly
    80** students—and has hired **more than 25** students who participated in
    those practicums.

Learn more about the MEMP Consulting Practicum Program

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

