

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Brandon Jones Crafts Career from Life Experiences, Personal Interests

March 15, 2005

If he had the chance to give advice, Charlotte, North Carolina, native Brandon
Jones would tell fellow students to make the most of their time at Duke by
getting involved. "There is just so much to do here, and I love that you can
be interested and involved in many different areas," said Jones, who graduated
in 2004 with a B.S. double major in biomedical and electrical engineering, and
then entered the Master of Engineering Management Program (MEM).

As an undergrad, Jones was a crew leader and climbing director for the
Wilderness Initiatives for Learning at Duke (WILD) program, and a teaching
fellow with Techtronics, a middle-school outreach program sponsored by
Burroughs Wellcome designed to help young students develop an interest in
pursuing engineering careers. He was also a volunteer emergency medical
technician, providing basic life support to Duke University Medical Center and
surrounding areas.

"I loved the instant gratification of teaching, getting to see the kids react,
learn and really understand. You could see their interest grow and their
behaviors changes," said Jones, enthusiasm evidence in his shining eyes and
hand gestures.

Through the Master of Engineering Management (MEM) program, Jones is learning
to apply the problem solving thinking style he gained as an undergraduate
engineer to the large-scale problems of business and industry.

Jones started the MEM program as an intern with Duke's Fitzpatrick Center for
Photonics and Communications. His team's task was to create "machine vision"—a
means for helping machines interpret activity in the surrounding environment.

In just three weeks, the student team used their knowledge about optical,
acoustic and electrical components to build an inexpensive sensor network that
uses non-visual data such as heat and sound. The team then further modified
the design for an outdoor perimeter tracking application, which is being
studied in the Duke Forest. After enhancing the system's intelligence to
conduct complex triangulations and remote data transmission, Jones's team
presented their research at the 24th Army Science Conference in Orlando, FL.
The project is ongoing as part of a larger National Security Agency grant
focused on tracking and identifying individuals without the use of imaging or
human interpretation.

In addition to his tracking research, Jones and another student team are in
the process of developing a student design technology with a medical safety
application. Encouraged by an extremely positive response from Duke University
Medical Center Safety Committee, they are investigating commercial
opportunities for this technology and are competing for venture capital
funding in the 2005 Duke Start-up Challenge. The competition requires each
team to prepare a full business plan and marketing assessment of their
technology and present their case to venture capitalists.

In addition, Jones has been selected to take part in the New Venture Fellows
program in Spring 05, where he will partner with second year MBA students to
analyze and develop commercialization opportunities for inventions from the
School of Medicine or the Pratt School of Engineering. "I'm excited about the
challenge of working on two different business plans at the same time," said
Jones.

The MEM curriculum was recently enhanced to provide students with more
application based coursework to choose from for their technical electives. One
of these electives is Operations Management taught by Assistant Professor
Gurhan Kok from the Fuqua School of Business. Jones and his classmates work
together to evaluate open-ended industry case studies, and then figure out
what to do. "It's exactly what I'll face in the real world," he said. "There
are no set guidelines, and there is more than one way to succeed or fail."

Through the MEM program's courses, internship, seminar series and
extracurricular activities, Jones has been able to develop his engineering
knowledge to address current problems. "I've been able to interact with people
at all levels of engineering, university and medical school administration and
research," he said. "It's been a fantastic entrance and really reinforces the
need to be able to work well in teams of people with differing expertise."

Soft spoken, and naturally a little shy, Jones said that learning how to
network—and feel comfortable doing it—has been one of the most challenging
aspects of the MEM program. "I running up my networking skills this year," he
said. "And that is giving me a better comfort level for interviews."

After graduation in May 2005, Jones plans to work in industry or
consulting—possibly in a new company that he helps to spin off from Duke.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

