

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Business Savvy, Environmentally Conscious Degree Opportunity

July 17, 2008

Each year, the Master of Engineering Management Program (MEMP) builds on the
foundation that an undergraduate degree in engineering or science has
established. The program uses a combination of core business and management
courses and technical electives to develop a skill set that includes advanced
technical knowledge along with a strong understanding of management and
business.

In recent years, the MEMP has seen an increasing number of students looking to
add another component to the degree; environmental management. Given the
current "go-green" trend that has swept the nation, and generally increased
awareness of environmental issues, MEMP directors were happy to help students
find a way to add an environmental component to the existing MEMP degree.
Fortunately, the Nicholas School of the Environment and Earth Sciences offers
a Master of Environmental Management degree (MEM) that compliments the MEMP
degree perfectly.

The joint MEMP/MEM degree provides a perfect solution for students interested
in engineering and environmental management. The program takes less time and
costs significantly less than obtaining each degree separately. Students
seeking the joint degree will take 24 credits from MEMP, which will include
core engineering management courses, technical electives, and completion of an
internship. On the MEM side, students will complete 36 credits which will
include courses based in environmental social science and environmental
natural science. Additionally, they will complete a substantial masters
project, featuring in-depth research in the program area in which the student
is studying.

The program will typically take 24 to 28 months, versus the three years it
would take to complete the degrees separately. As a result of the shortened
duration, it costs about $20,000 less.

The MEMP/MEM joint degree serves as an effective and inventive academic
solution for those seeking a business edge and a way to make a positive
environmental impact. Both the Pratt School of Engineering and the Nicholas
School of the Environment look forward to watching this program grow.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

