

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# China Outpacing Rivals in Producing Graduate-Level Engineers, Study Finds

April 1, 2007

China is "racing ahead" of both the United States and India in producing
graduates with advanced engineering and technology degrees and in its ability
to perform basic research, according to new findings in a Duke University-
authored article published in the online edition of _Issues in Science and
Technology_.

The trend is part of a complex picture that challenges popular wisdom and
sheds new light on how the United States and its two emerging Asian
rivals—China and India—may compete for the technical talent that will underlie
future jobs and industries.

"Where the Engineers Are" is one of four articles about India and China that
appeared March 16 in the journal published jointly by the National Academy of
Sciences and others.

The Duke authors—Vivek Wadhwa, Gary Gereffi, Ben Rissing and Ryan Ong—dispute
popular claims that India and China are graduating many times more
baccalaureate-level engineers than the United States. However, they say China
leads the other two countries in producing master's and doctoral degrees.
Looking beyond these statistics, they examine how the situation is affected by
the quality of Indian and Chinese graduates, international job marketability,
salary deflation and unemployment.

The authors say producing more undergraduate engineers alone will not enable
the United States to protect its engineering jobs from the kind of outsourcing
that has occurred in other fields. It is not deficiencies in American workers
or the availability of skills in other countries that are driving companies
abroad. America needs to find ways to keep critical research and design
activities that lead to technology innovation at home, the authors say, adding
that the remedies for preserving U.S. competitiveness need to be based on more
fact and research.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

