

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Corcuera, a Textron Fellow, Gets Taste of Corporate Engineering

April 7, 2006

Mariella Corcuera may ultimately pursue a career in medicine or medical
devices, but she'll always be an engineer at heart. Through Pratt's Master
of Engineering Management Program at Duke, Corcuera got the chance to
experience the life of a corporate engineer as a Textron Fellow.

In 2004, Textron, a $10 billion dollar multi-industry company, established a
Textron Fellowship for Duke graduate women and minorities interested in
engineering management. Textron offers the fellows both tuition and a paid
internship at one of their many businesses.

Corcuera, from Bradenton, FL, is the first Fellow of the program and spent her
internship at Textron's division E-Z-GO headquartered in Augusta, GA, an area
famed for PGA golfing. Not surprisingly, E-Z-GO is the world's largest
manufacturer of vehicles for golf courses, resort communities and
municipalities, as well as commercial and industrial users such as airports
and factories.

"One of the reasons I went to E-Z-GO was to work with Vice President of
Engineering Susan Rutt," said Corcuera. Textron hopes through its fellowship
programs, such as the one at Duke, and its diversity initiatives to attract
more women and minority professionals like Susan Rutt and newcomers to the
field like Mariella Corcuera.

"Including me and Susan Rutt, there was one other female engineer at E-Z-GO,
but that didn't seem to bother Susan at all. I observed how she carried
herself during meetings, and I was so impressed with how good she was at
listening to people and delegating. She was obviously respected and a strong
leader. It didn't faze her at all to be a woman in charge of essentially an
all male team."

Working with her supervisor, quality engineer Mike Smith, Corcuera's task was
to help implement a pilot management process called New Product and Service
Introduction (NP&SI), developed through the Textron Six Sigma process. NP&SI
is an online workflow project management database that establishes project
milestones and checklists, stores project documentation and requires key
management signoffs before moving to the next step.

"My job was to educate people on the merits of NP&SI and get them to use
it," said Corcuera. "People came on board quickly because they could see the
value of having such structure and organization."

At the end of 10 weeks, Corcuera presented the pilot project of NP&SI to E-Z-
GO's executive leadership team. "They were amazed at the depth of project
documentation we had collected, and how well the system worked," continued
Corcuera. "Mariella did an outstanding job of designing and implementing the
NP&SI process that is used consistently at E-Z-GO," said Susan Rutt, E-Z-
GO's VP of Engineering. "Mariella has a bright future ahead of her. She will
be a true asset to the field she ultimately decides to pursue."

"It was a great experience working there, and I felt very welcomed,"said
Corcuera. It also whetted her appetite for more engineering-related
experiences.

Corcuera originally went into engineering because she was interested in
medical devices. She majored in electrical engineering at the University of
South Florida in Tampa Bay. A native of Lima, Peru who subsequently grew up in
Canada, Corcuera was a member of the Society for Hispanic Professional
Engineers, the Society of Women Engineers, the Eta Kappa Nu electrical
engineering honor society and the university's Robotics Club. As a junior,
she had the opportunity to take part in the Research Experiences for
Undergraduates program at Boston University where she worked on cardiac
defibrillators.

After she graduated, Corcuera ultimately turned down a full ride doctoral
scholarship to the University of South Florida in order to pursue a master of
engineering management degree at Duke.

"What I liked about Duke's program is how law, business and engineering are
integrated," Corcuera explains. "Most other engineering management programs
I looked into focused only on industrial engineering courses. I'm interested
in becoming business savvy, but don't want to wade through a full MBA
program."

She's also a big fan of the requirement to do a work internship _before_
beginning the classes. "The experience helps us relate to the skills and
techniques that we later learn about in our courses."

As for her future plans, she has not yet decided whether to go directly into
industry for a while and perhaps work on medical devices or instruments, or to
attend medical school or a biomedical engineering PhD program. "Right now,
I'm leaning towards working in industry for one to two years and then
deciding about graduate school," she said.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

