

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEMP Alumna Cornejo Honored With Forever Duke Student Leadership Award

May 3, 2017

The award recognizes graduating students across Duke's undergraduate,
graduate, and professional schools who have exhibited extraordinary leadership
during their time at Duke.

2016 MEMP graduate Allende Cornejo was recently honored with the Forever Duke
Student Leadership Award on April 20 at the Center for Leadership and Social
Action’s In the Spotlight ceremony.

The award recognizes graduating students across Duke's undergraduate,
graduate, and professional schools who have exhibited extraordinary leadership
during their time at Duke. Recipients are individuals of high integrity who
have gone above and beyond in their commitment to Duke, and who exhibit
qualities worthy of the award:

  * They are strong advocates for the Duke community
  * They embody Duke’s guiding principle of “knowledge in the service to
    society"
  * They are leaving Duke a better place than they found it

Faculty and staff from across campus nominated Duke graduating students, and a
committee from the Duke Alumni Association selected the winners. Eight faculty
and staff within Pratt’s Professional Masters department nominated Allende for
her contribution to the on-boarding process for new students. As the Lead
Mentor for the programs in the summer and fall of 2016, Allende connected new
students with the program and helped build a community before the students
arrived in Durham with dynamic video content and virtual Q&A sessions. Once
students arrived on campus, she suggested ways to improve the student
experience, identifying updates to presentations, logistics and communication
within Orientation programming. According to her nominators, “Her high quality
work enabled students to have a better experience and allowed administrators
to understand ways in which we could improve our introductory programs for the
future.”

Congratulations on this outstanding achievement, Allende!

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

