

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# CUREs Winner Tackles Cervical Cancer in Haiti and Around the World

May 1, 2007

The winning team of the second annual Duke-Engineering World Health CUREs non-
profit business competition has developed a device to help catch cervical
cancer early in women of developing countries. The low-cost device called a
cerviScope might also hold promise for use in industrialized countries,
including the U.S., according to Duke physicians familiar with the new cancer-
screening instrument.

"Our ambition is to save the lives of 19,000 women in the next five years by
helping them get access to cervical cancer screenings," said Theo Tam, the
team leader and a graduate student in the Master of Engineering Management
Program at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering.

"Our primary mission is to make an impact in places like Haiti and Tanzania,"
he continued. "This is what our vision is founded on. But if hospitals here
see potential in our device, I certainly don't have a problem with that."

As winners of the competition, the team's company ImaGYN will receive $100,000
in startup funds and incubation at the Pratt School of Engineering, including
business, technical and legal advice and support for clinical trials. The
ImaGYN team includes Tam, Wynn Xiao Wu, Adnan Haider, Gauravjit Singh and Ram
Balasubramanian.

## Cancer Epidemic

Cervical cancer, caused almost exclusively by infection with human
papillomavirus (HPV), is the second most common cause of death from cancer
among women worldwide. The disease has reached epidemic proportions in some
Caribbean countries, where the Pan American Health Organization has found the
cervical cancer rates to be at least three times higher than in North America.
Cervical cancer is the leading cause of female cancer death in Haiti, which
has the highest incidence of the disease of any country.

The disease typically remains in a pre-cancerous state for 10 to 15 years,
during which advanced cervical cancer is highly preventable, Tam said. A
simple visual inspection with acetic acid—a key ingredient of vinegar—is a
proven and effective screening method.

Based on the findings of Family Health Ministries through the efforts of
Duke's David Walmer and Marcus Henderson in Haiti over the last ten years, the
new cerviScope device is designed to aid in the cancer screening process by
providing 8x magnification and white and green light to enhance visual
contrast. Tam's team created the device "from scratch" specifically for low-
resource environments, making it portable, durable and battery-operated with
the option for manual power. The design effort was supported by the National
Collegiate Inventors & Innovators Alliance and Family Health Ministries.

The ImaGyn team intends to market the device for $600. Currently available
instruments for cervical screening cost more than $10,000.

"We need more upstream solutions to catch disease in the earliest stages,"
said Dr. Kathleen Clem, chief of emergency medicine at Duke University Medical
Center. "Most importantly, the cerviScope supports the concept of immediate
care with its one-day screen-and-treat potential."

"It's possible that even in the developed country, countries like the United
States, there might be a market or an interest in it," said Dr. Peter
Cartwright, of the obstetrics and gynecology department at Duke.

This year's CUREs competition was a very tight race, according to Chuck
Messer, an engineer at Tackle Design in Durham who has served as a CUREs judge
for the last two years. The runner-up team, led by Fuqua student Kyle Stanzel,
developed a low-cost incubator for premature infants. Stanzel's company,
called Innovators of Hope, will continue to seek out funding in support of the
incubator, which has the potential to make a difference for more than one
million babies in developing world countries each year.

##

CUREs is a non-profit business plan competition sponsored by Engineering World
Health (EWH), a Duke-based organization co-founded by Robert Malkin, professor
of the practice in biomedical engineering at Duke's Pratt School. EWH aims to
bring medical technology to the developing world to solve public health
problems while promoting entrepreneurship.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

