

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Daniel Egger, Founder and Chairman, Open Source Risk Management LLC

April 10, 2008

The Black Swan Theory and its Role in Financial Markets:

Nassim Nicholas Taleb's definition of a black swan is a large-impact, hard-to-
predict, and rare event beyond the realm of normal expectations. Taleb regards
many scientific discoveries as black swans– "undirected" and unpredicted. Mr.
Egger will describe this theory and explain how it applies to financial
markets.

About the Speaker: Daniel Egger is the Founder and Chairman of Open Source
Risk Management, Inc. to which be brings more than ten years of commercial
software development, risk management, and finance experience. In 1992 he
founded Libertech, a venture-backed search technology company, to
commercialize pattern-matching algorithms he had developed and patented while
doing graduate work in statistics and mathematical modeling. After selling
Libertech in 1996, he joined Eno River Capital, an early-stage venture capital
fund based in the Research Triangle area of North Carolina, where he is
currently Managing Partner.

Daniel is a graduate of Yale University and the Yale Law School, and clerked
for Judge William Bryant of the United States District Court in Washington,
DC. He was the first Howard Johnson Foundation Entrepreneur in Residence at
Duke University, where he is an Adjunct Assistant Professor. Eight years ago
Daniel founded what is now one of the best-known Business Plan competitions in
the country, the Babcock Elevator Competition, in which students have two
minutes to present their Plan while riding twenty floors in an elevator with
the judges. Daniel has served as an organizer, lead investor, Board Member,
and/or interim CEO for more than a dozen venture-backed technology startups.
Three years ago Digital South Magazine named him one of its Heroes of
Southern Technology.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

