

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Desire to Make a Global Impact Drives Lauren Matic

March 15, 2005

Through the Master of Engineering Management (MEM) program, Lauren Matic, a
native of Kenilworth, Illinois, is crafting a career where she can make a
difference in the world. Matic graduated from Duke in May 2004 with a double
major in biomedical/electrical engineering and a minor in French. She spent
the summer evaluating projection technology to set up a new visualization
laboratory and assessing the novelty of new head mounted optical microdisplay
system, but her real love is the field of biomedical devices.

"My favorite class as an undergraduate was BME 260-Devices for People with
Disabilities with Dr. Larry Bohs," said Matic. "It was so exciting to actually
make something that helped people."

Matic was struck by how difficult it was for some children to simply play in
conventional classrooms. "If everyone is playing on the floor with toys and
one child is in a wheelchair, that child can't participate and ends up having
to read quietly somewhere out of the way," said said.

Matic created a "playstation" table for children with disabilities. The table
could be lowered or raised to suit the needs of children in wheel chairs, and
incorporated different kinds of sensory stimulating materials.

"It was rewarding to find ways to help children with disabilities play with
toys in the same way as children without disabilities," said Matic. For
example, some children may not have the range of motion to scoop up sand and
then pour it out. Matic designed a scooping crane for the table that the kids
could then dump by touching a button.

"It was amazing how much they enjoyed that crane and the whole playstation
table," she said.

These days, she's part of a team trying to win this year's venture capital
Duke Start-up Challenge competition, running track and cross-country for Duke,
and learning how to finance innovation in a global marketplace.

"It's been awesome to be able to go into Fuqua's business classes as an MEM
student," said Matic. "You get access to people with such incredible
experience and different background than just engineering."

Matic is working with Fuqua's Gopal Chopra, an Associate Professor of Business
Administration and practicing neurosurgeon, to figure out how to make the
arduous and expensive task of bringing medical devices into the marketplace
more economically efficient.

"Then we're going to take it a step further and figure out how to make it work
as well in global markets," said Matic.

She has become keenly aware that people in other countries may have different
needs because of cultural and technology infrastructure differences, thanks to
her Devices for the Developing World course with BME professor of the practice
Robert Malkin. Malkin runs the non-profit Engineering World Health
organization, which supplies hospitals with medical equipment and training to
use and repair the equipment. The class is developing devices to test if
medical equipment is functioning within acceptable parameters.

"You can't just ride in on a white horse, drop off equipment and leave feeling
like it's a job well done," said Matic. "New equipment doesn't do any good if
the hospital doesn't even have a consistent source of electricity. And
equipment does break down—so what happens then?"

It's also important to remember that without proper training, people may use
the equipment improperly, possibly causing injury, she notes. "We have to find
ways to reach out and help, but also to create sustainability," Matic said.

"I feel like I'm taking all the skills I learned in the past four years as an
engineering student and pulling it all together to make engineering useful,"
said Matic. "Any new technology will never go anywhere if there isn't a
business to make it, and I want to know how to make the most out of
engineering inventions," she said.

While Matic pursues a master of engineering management she is also able to
take advantage of her last year of eligibility on her athletic scholarship.
Matic was recruited to Duke's track and cross teams as an undergraduate, but
was injured in her freshmen year. In 2004, her senior year, Matic was captain
of both teams, and made it to the NCAA regional finals in 2003 and 2004 for
the 800 meters event.

After graduating with her Masters in engineering management, Matic says she
hopes to join the biomedical devices industry possibly where she can leverage
her fluency in French.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

