

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Diverse Interests Drive Success for MEM Student Gautham Pandiyan

April 1, 2009

As a young man growing up in Chennai, India and in England, Gautham Pandiyan
has always sought out new experiences and opportunities. When he came to Duke
to pursue a PhD in Molecular Cancer Biology he took advantage of Duke's
interdisciplinary approach to education and tried a few Fuqua classes. Quickly
realizing that he had a flare for business and innovation, Gautham completed
his MS and made the switch to the MEM program where he could continue to
pursue his technical interests and build a foundation of business skills.

Gautham is a standout MEM student both in and out of the classroom. As an
undergraduate at The University of Georgia, he volunteered with the UGA
International Student Life office and was extremely appreciative of the
services that they provided to international students. When he came to Duke,
he took it a step further and applied to be the Residential Manager of the
Duke International House. He got the job and has spent the past year living in
the I-House, working with I-House staff to improve services, and even driving
the van for the biweekly shopping trip once a month. Gautham feels that the
I-House is an important part of the international student experience here at
Duke – a home away from home where international students can seek guidance
and support.

Gautham's engagement in the Duke community goes far beyond just the
international student population. Elected as a member of the GPSC executive
board in the past and having served on the board of directors for the National
Association for Graduate and Professional Schools, Gautham has worked to help
graduate and professional students across the country. He led lobbying efforts
in Washington, DC to improve the climate for graduate and professional
students and also works daily with the Duke administration. Gautham was
recently nominated for the Young Trustee Award here at Duke, and despite not
receiving the award, feels honored to have been nominated. Additionally, as an
employee of Duke's Office of Licensing and Ventures and as a key player in
Entrepreneurship-Week planning and execution, Gautham celebrates the
entrepreneurial spirit of Duke.

Gautham's talents also reach into the arts. As an active member of Sabrosura,
an on-campus Salsa dancing group, Gautham struts his stuff at shows and even
provides occasional lessons to other MEM students. In his free time (it hardly
seems possible that he could have any) Gautham likes exploring Durham,
spending time with friends, and researching industry, which he feels is a
clear indicator that he made the right choice when he moved to MEM. Gautham
hopes to work on the commercial side of a biotechnology or pharmaceutical
company when he graduates in September. There is no doubt that Gautham will
make his mark on the world, he has certainly made his mark at Duke.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

