

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Duke Student Entrepreneurs To Compete for Start Up Funds

April 18, 2006

Physicians who have struggled for years to monitor and treat the HIV/AIDS
epidemic in Africa could soon have a low-cost solution thanks to a team of
students at Duke University. These students, and others with unique ideas to
improve health care technology in developing countries, are vying for the top
prize in a Duke University business plan competition Saturday.

The student business named Global ImmunoDiagnostics has developed what its
organizers believe is a low-cost solution enabling physicians in sub-Saharan
Africa to monitor the effects of anti-retroviral therapy on HIV/AIDS infected
patients—an assessment process that is currently cost-prohibitive for most
hospitals in developing world countries.

Global ImmunoDiagnostics will compete against other student teams with
business ideas for affordably treating neonatal jaundice, and manufacturing a
$25 electrocardiogram device. All teams will find out Saturday just how
sustainable and realistic their ideas are at the Competition for Underserved
and Resource-Poor Economies (CUREs), hosted in partnership with the Duke
Start-Up Challenge.

"This is a uniquely challenging competition requiring students to use their
passion and creativity to develop sustainable businesses that impact
developing-world countries," said Robert Malkin, a professor in the Pratt
School of Engineering at Duke and founder of CUREs.

Saturday's awards ceremony will feature three teams competing for the CUREs
top prize of $100,000 of funding and a year of incubation in Duke's Pratt
School of Engineering, awarded to the most compelling non-profit enterprise.

Also on Saturday, running concurrent with the CUREs competition, the 7th
annual Duke Start-Up Challenge will award $70,000 in prizes in four
categories: 1) Healthcare/Life Sciences, 2) High Tech, 3) Non-intellectual
Property Based or Service-Based and 4) Social Ventures. The team that creates
the best business idea will win $25,000.

The Duke Start-up Challenge is traditionally a for-profit competition and
encompasses all aspects of building a start-up business, including assembling
a management team, formulating a business plan and developing core product
technology.

"More than 40 teams entered the competition, with the final stage whittled
down to seven," said Mark Rice, organizing committee member of the Duke Start-
Up Challenge, which is also entirely student-run. "We have some very promising
businesses in the competition."

Duke University is renowned for creating an environment where entrepreneurship
is not only fostered but rewarded. The 7th annual Duke Start-Up Challenge
awards ceremony is being hosted in cooperation with the inaugural CUREs
competition to highlight these programs which tout students' entrepreneurial
leadership.

The CUREs competition was launched through Duke University's Engineering World
Health (Duke-EWH), a non-profit with the mission to improve health care
technology in underserved nations. Through CUREs, Duke-EWH conducts research
and rewards students for developing sustainable business ideas that improve
health care in developing countries.

"Students have dedicated their time and energy to create non-profit business
ideas that can truly improve health care technology in countries that need it
most," said Jessica Thomas, director of CUREs.

Malkin's student teams learned that modern equipment that is often taken for
granted in U.S. hospitals is in short supply in developing-world hospitals. He
points out CUREs competitors have created business ideas with technologies
that are appropriate solutions to these hospitals' problems—not necessarily
the best-of-breed approach.

"These businesses could revolutionize health care technology for millions of
people in poor countries," said Malkin.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

