

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Duke MEMP Team in APICS/TFC Global Student Final

May 9, 2017

A team of Duke MEMP students participated in the APICS/TFC Global Student
Final in Washington, DC in September 2016 after winning the regional level.

A team of Duke MEMP students participated in the APICS/TFC Global Student
Final in Washington, DC in September 2016 after winning the regional level
earlier in the year. While the team didn't place in the final competition,
team member Fajar Prihantoro thought it was a great experience. "We did not do
well during the competition as we finished 12 out of 15. However, we enjoyed
the learning experience during the competition. We also got a chance to
participate in the APICS Global Conference and meet with companies and
professionals within Supply Chain and Operations fields."

Teams from Binghamton University, California State University San Marcos, Duke
University, San Diego State University, University of Pittsburgh, University
of Wisconsin – Milwaukee, and Western Illinois University, as well as
international teams from HEC Montreal, McGill University, Nationale des
Sciences Appliquees de Tetouan, Shanghai University, Technologico de
Monterrey, University of Southern Denmark, and Universidad del Pacifico,
completed the challenge.

Student teams competed in a business simulation based on the fictional juice
company, Fresh Connection. The teams were challenged to overcome business
problems by making strategic supply chain decisions that would positively or
negatively impact business results. Teams accumulated points by enabling Fresh
Connection to build a high-performing supply chain that improved efficiencies
and increased revenue by tearing down functional silos and adopting a
collaborative mindset.

Team members included

  * Pranay Nagrath
  * Shruti Gupta
  * Manish Haridas
  * Fajar Prihantoro

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

