

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Duke Places Eighth Again in U.S. News Rankings

August 17, 2007

Duke University remains in the eighth position in the latest annual ranking
from U.S. News & World Report magazine of national universities that offer
doctoral degrees.

U.S. News also singled out Duke in four of eight categories of "programs to
look for," which it called "outstanding examples of academic programs that are
commonly linked to student success." Duke was cited in the service learning
category and in three others for which it was recognized last year: senior
capstone, writing in the disciplines and undergraduate research and creative
projects.

The recognition for service learning follows the February launch of
DukeEngage, a major new program that will provide funding for any Duke
undergraduate who wants to pursue an immersive service experience that
contributes to the public good.

Also unchanged is Dukes No. 10 ranking in a category called "great schools,
great prices," for which the magazine compares a school's academic quality
with the net cost of attendance for a student who receives the average level
of need-based financial aid. "The higher the quality of the program and the
lower the cost, the better the deal," the magazine said.

Duke's biomedical/biomedical engineering programs again ranked second, and its
undergraduate engineering program tied again at No. 25 among doctoral
universities.

Duke also appears again in an "economic diversity" analysis of national
universities, this one showing that 9 percent of Duke undergraduates received
federal Pell grants for low-income students.

"We're gratified that the quality of our faculty and students has been
recognized once again, said Provost Peter Lange, the university's top academic
official. "I'm especially pleased that Duke was recognized this year in the
'service-learning' category, reflecting the priority we have given to
expanding such opportunities for students and to putting knowledge in the
service of society more broadly.

"As always, we acknowledge the limitations of these and other rankings and
urge anyone considering applying to college to use the rankings as only one,
and certainly not the most informative and important, of many possible sources
of information."

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

