

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Duke Engineering Dean Named Provost at Johns Hopkins; Robert Clark to Lead
Duke's Pratt School of Engineering

July 18, 2007

Kristina M. Johnson, dean of Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering,
has been appointed provost and senior vice president of academic affairs at
The Johns Hopkins University.

Robert L. Clark, chair of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science and Thomas Lord Professor of Mechanical Engineering, has
agreed to become dean of Pratt, effective Aug. 15. Clark, who previously was
the Pratt School's senior associate dean, will serve as dean until a national
search for Johnson's successor has been completed, said Duke Provost Peter
Lange.

"Rob Clark is an accomplished teacher, researcher and academic administrator
whose collegial style and commitment to excellence are broadly recognized
within the Pratt School, across Duke and within the engineering profession,"
Lange said. "I am very pleased he has agreed to serve as dean while we conduct
our national search."

Clark, a specialist in acoustics and bionanomanufacturing, joined Duke's
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science in 1992 as an
assistant professor. He holds a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from the
Virginia Polytechnic Institute in Blacksburg, Va.

He is a founding directing of Duke's Center for Biologically Inspired
Materials and Material Systems (cbimms.duke.edu), an interdisciplinary program
focused on bionanomanufacturing, nanotherapeutics, biointerface science and
nanobiomechanics. As CBIMMS director, Clark helped establish a graduate
admissions program for a certificate in Biological and Biologically Inspired
Materials. This program was initiated through support from the National
Science Foundation's Integrative Graduate Education and Research Traineeship
Program -- one of the first NSF grants to support nanomaterials education at
the graduate level.

Clark is particularly interested in enabling bionanomanufacturing by
developing nanofabrication processes that are compatible with water, enable
mass production without the need for a clean room and are biocompatible. In
2006, he served on North Carolina Gov. Mike Easley's Task Force on Nanoscience
and North Carolina's Economy.

Clark earned a National Science Foundation CAREER Award and an Air Force
Office of Scientific Research Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists
and Engineers (PECASE) for significant contributions to the field of adaptive
structures involving noise and vibration control. In 1998, he won the R. Bruce
Lindsey Award from the Acoustical Society of America and was subsequently
named a fellow. He is also a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers and an associate fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics.

Clark was named senior associate dean at the Pratt School in 2001. In that
position, he established a more robust research grant preparation and
management office and cross-disciplinary initiatives in photonics,
bioengineering and biologically inspired materials, and energy and the
environment.

In his time at Duke, Clark has been active in campus service. He was a member
of the executive committee of Academic Council, the university-wide faculty
governance body; is founding chair of the materials governance committee; and
currently serves as the chair of the patent policy committee.

Johnson, who takes office on Sept. 1, will be the first woman to hold Johns
Hopkins' second-ranking position.

Since coming to Duke as engineering dean in 1999, the Pratt School has
undergone significant growth in both size and quality. Of 50 new faculty
members recruited during her tenure, 14 have won early career "young
investigator" awards. The undergraduate student body has grown 20 percent and
strong graduate programs have doubled in size.

Johnson oversaw planning, funding and construction of the 322,000-square-foot
Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary Engineering, Medicine and Applied
Sciences. The school's research expenditures have tripled to $60 million and
the endowment has grown from $20 million to $200 million.

Duke President Richard H. Brodhead praised Johnson for her contributions at
Duke.

Kristina Johnson has been a transformational dean of engineering at Duke and a
lively contributor to the larger university community," Brodhead said. "She is
a person of great positive energy that inspires those around her. We'll hate
to see her go, but are delighted to see her talents recognized with these new
challenges and responsibilities.

In a letter to Duke Provost Lange, Johnson said, "The Pratt School is in a
very strong position, given the foundation that has been established over the
past eight years. So while there never is an ideal time to leave a job I have
truly loved, for me this is a good time to take on a new and exciting
responsibility and the challenge of institution-wide leadership.

"It has been my great privilege and honor to serve as the Dean of the Pratt
School during a time of unprecedented expansion and growth."

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

