

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Duke Student's Idea For Treating Jaundice In Newborns Could Impact Millions
In Developing World

April 23, 2006

PhotoGenesis launches as a not-for-profit after winning Duke student business
plan competition

A team led by Duke University engineering graduate student Vijay Anand has
developed an affordable LED-based jaundice treatment for newborns that will
cost roughly 95 percent less than currently available technology. The
technology, called Photogenesis, won the $100,000 Duke University Engineering
World Health CUREs competition. Anand will receive an executive salary and one
year of incubation in Duke's Pratt School of Engineering to facilitate product
development and fuel global market development.

Jaundice, known for the yellowing of a baby's skin and eyes, is a common
medical condition in newborn babies caused by an excess of bilirubin in the
blood. Early treatment with phototherapy typically prevents serious
complications such as brain damage or even death, however in developing-world
hospitals such treatment is often unavailable due to lack of education and the
high cost of phototherapy equipment, referred to as bili-lights, which can run
upwards of $5,000.

"Low-cost bili-lights could help revolutionize treatment for newborn jaundice
in developing-world countries," said Robert Malkin, professor of the practice
of biomedical engineering at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering and founder of
the CUREs competition. CUREs encourages students to develop non-profit
businesses that improve health care in developing countries.

Phototherapy in the form of the bili-light consists of a series of fluorescent
lights placed over a baby's bed to help eliminate bilirubin found just beneath
the surface of the skin. Exposure to the light changes the structure of the
bilirubin, making it easier to be excreted by the liver.

"It is sometimes difficult for medical professionals in the West to appreciate
the level of need in the poorest countries. Infant mortality in Afghanistan is
the worst in the world, where 20 percent of babies born alive die before age
five," said Doug Franco, executive director of Orchard International, a Palo
Alto, CA, non-profit that provides health assistance, education and emergency
relief to Afghanistan and other countries. Orchard International intends to
help Anand with field trials and distribution abroad for PhotoGenesis.

Currently, bili-light equipment can range anywhere from $1,800 to more than
$5,000—making the cost to treat jaundice in developing-world countries
prohibitive for many hospital clinicians.

The team headed by Master of Engineering management student Vijay Anand
designed will cost about $500 each. BME students Amit Joshipura, Randy Yamada,
and Ryan Werstuik were involved in the design. Tackle Design, a Durham
industrial design firm, aided in the original design and will assist with the
manufacture of the device.

"The investment of a few hundred dollars for PhotoGenesis' product might save
dozens of lives per year in Kabul, Basrah, Banda Aceh, Addis Ababa, or one
hundred other Asian or African cities," said Franco.

Anand's vision is that PhotoGenesis will develop and distribute health care
technology solutions that are appropriate for underserved countries. Best-of-
breed technology is often impractical in such places, but even very basic
medical equipment can save lives. He expects countries such as Afghanistan and
Ethiopia, as well as others in Southeast Asia and East Africa to be the
primary targets for initial impact.

CUREs is an educational, interdisciplinary business plan competition through
Duke University Engineering World Health designed to create sustainable social
ventures based on innovative technologies that address the medical needs of
the developing world. The winner receives $100,000–the nation's largest award
in a not-for-profit business competition.

Duke University-Engineering World Health is a non-profit organization that
impacts underserved communities around the world. Through its "Cycle of
Caring," Duke-EWH places students and volunteers in hospitals in poor nations
to repair and install medical equipment; it serves as a delivery stream for
donated medical equipment; and it conducts research to develop appropriate
technology that impacts the needs of poor nations.

The Competition for Underserved and Resource-poor Economies (CUREs) is an
outgrowth of that research mission, launched in cooperation with Duke
University's Pratt School of Engineering, which promotes hands-on, outside-
the-classroom learning experiences to foster leadership and cultural
awareness.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

