

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Duke Engineer Receives Rhodes Scholarship

November 22, 2010

DURHAM, N.C. -- Duke University senior Jared Dunnmon of Cincinnati was among
the 32 recipients selected this weekend for prestigious Rhodes Scholarships.

Dunnmon, an A.B. Duke Scholar and past recipient of Goldwater Scholarships in
Science, Mathematics and Engineering, was chosen from among 837 applicants at
309 colleges and universities throughout the country. He is the 43rd student
in Duke’s history to receive a Rhodes Scholarship.

Rhodes Scholarships, created in 1902 by the will of British philanthropist
Cecil Rhodes, provide two or three years of study at Oxford University in
England. Recipients are selected on the basis of high academic achievement,
personal integrity, leadership potential and physical vigor, among other
attributes.

“Jared Dunmon has been a model Duke student in the breadth of his engagements,
his pursuit of excellence, and his use of academic learning to solve real-
world problems,” said Duke University President Richard H. Brodhead. “I’m
delighted that he has been recognized with the Rhodes Scholarship.”

Dunnmon is a mechanical engineering and economics major whose research has
focused on novel and renewable energy sources. Working with Duke engineering
professors Earl Dowell and Jonathan Protz, Dunnmon designed and tested
clusters of micro-turbine devices in a wind tunnel to determine how much power
they could produce from unusual wind flows, such as those between tall urban
buildings. Dunnman is both a Pratt Undergraduate Research Fellow and a Grand
Challenge Scholar.

While at Duke, Dunnmon served on a committee that helped develop an academic
certificate program in energy and the environment, and he is pursuing that
course of study along with his two majors. He also worked as an environmental
policy intern for the mayor of San Francisco, sang with the Duke Chapel Choir,
and served with student organizations related to sustainability and social
entrepreneurship at Duke.

At Oxford, Dunnmon plans to research the use of renewable fuels and other
fuel-efficient measures in both industrial gas turbines and jet engines.
Following his graduate studies at Oxford, he intends to develop a career in
energy policy as well as energy research.

“The major challenge for my generation is to develop innovative technological
and economic solutions that address the realities of dwindling resources
without jeopardizing those that still remain,” Dunnmon wrote in his Rhodes
application. “I want my life’s work to address what I believe to be the most
difficult aspect of this challenge -- making environmentally and economically
sustainable development possible on a global scale by providing accessible
energy from renewable sources.”

Dunnmon said he is still in a “state of disbelief” that he was chosen for the
Rhodes, adding, “I am extremely grateful to all of the people who have helped
me in the last few years to get here.”

Dunnmon said he celebrated by going out to dinner with his mother and a friend
Saturday night, but that he has a take-home test due Tuesday, “so it’s back to
the usual.”

The value of the Rhodes Scholarship varies depending on the academic field,
and the degree (B.A., master’s, doctoral) chosen. The Rhodes Trust pays all
college and university fees, provides a stipend to cover necessary expenses
while in residence in Oxford and during vacations, and transportation to and
from England. The total value of the scholarship is estimated to be about
$50,000 per year.

One other North Carolina student also was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship this
year –- S. Paul Shorkey, Jr. of the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill. A complete list of this year’s recipients is online at
rhodesscholar.org.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

