

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Duke Engineers to Collaborate with Saudi Arabia’s Effat College on Computer
Engineering Curriculum

February 10, 2005

Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering and Saudi Arabia's Effat
College, a privately funded women's college, will collaborate on the first
undergraduate engineering curriculum for women in Saudi Arabia.

Pratt Dean Kristina Johnson and Dr. Haifa Jamal Al Lail, dean of Effat
College, signed a cooperative agreement Jan. 30. The effort is funded by a
$100,000 grant from the U.S. State Department's Middle East Partnership
Program Initiative.

Pratt engineers will assist Effat in developing a bachelor degree-level
academic program in computer engineering. The new program will complement
Effat's existing program in computer science, and include courses adapted from
Duke's electrical and computer engineering curriculum. The program may also
include new science and mathematics supplemental courses designed to prepare
Effat students to study engineering.

The goal is to have the new curriculum in place for Effat by fall 2006. Duke
faculty will travel to Effat's campus in Saudi Arabia to assess the college's
needs and launch the new courses.

"Partnering with Effat College is particularly meaningful for Pratt, as we
have a very high percentage of women on faculty and women students at both the
undergraduate and graduate level," said Johnson, the first female dean of
Duke's engineering school. "This will be the first opportunity for women in
Saudi Arabia to study engineering, and we are excited and honored to be a part
of this historic undertaking."

Effat College, in Jeddah, is named in honor of the late Queen Effat, who
founded the Kingdom's first secondary school for women's education. The
college now offers career-relevant bachelors degrees in computer science,
information systems, kindergarten, psychology, and English language and
translation.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

