

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Entrepreneurialism Lures Annu Sood to Software Company

October 15, 2003 | By David King

By David King

When asked what drew engineer Annu Sood to her job at a software company, she
quickly responds, "the company's entrepreneurial spirit." Her answer is not
surprising, as Sood herself embodies that spirit, with quick thoughts and a
vivaciousness that keeps you scurrying to keep up. She enjoys the new
opportunities and new people she encounters each day at her product management
job.

She doesn't use much of the engineering she learned in her undergraduate
double major of Biomedical and Electrical Engineering. But, although she has
left her days of studying medical innovations and circuitry behind, the
problem-solving and analytical skills she learned as an engineer serve her
well. Employed by BlueCube Software, a software company out of Atlanta, Sood
now spends her time in product management.

Working to develop products that fit a client's needs remains a demanding
task. By talking with the consumers, Sood gathers the requirements from the
field and then takes that information back to a development team. Together,
the BlueCube team works with the client to develop solutions to fill the
identified gaps and ultimately improve the product. Recently, Sood moved from
the product side of the business to focus on working more closely with clients
themselves. The chance to communicate and present her company to numerous
clients keeps Sood excited about work.

At first, Sood's keen business sense seems a far cry from her Duke
undergraduate background in engineering. But by her senior year, Sood knew
that she wanted to move beyond her technical focus and into the business
world. Duke's Master of Engineering Management program offered her the
necessary bridge to shift careers.

Straight out of undergraduate, she did not find herself quite prepared for a
typical MBA program. But she had no desire to enroll in an even more technical
Masters in engineering. After checking further information online and
comparing Duke versus competing MEM programs, Sood talked with some students
she knew already enrolled in the MEM program. Satisfied with Duke's reputation
for education and content to remain close to home in North Carolina, Sood
enrolled in the program in the fall of 1999.

Along with all her positive experiences, Sood naturally saw some of the
program's limitations. At that time, the program was relatively new, maturing
through its adolescent stage, and she would have liked to gain more in depth
business knowledge. Still, the one-year program well serves people with her
background.

"I would not recommend the MEM program to someone who is seeking vast business
knowledge. But for someone who already has the ability to think technically
but is not interested in pursing a solely technical career, the MEM program
can be a good fit," said Sood.

Sood acknowledged her employer valued the MEM degree, and it helped her land
the job she has now. She found her job through Duke's engineering career fair,
and she was drawn to it immediately. Major selling points were the company's
open-minded colleagues, opportunities to learn new things, and the chance to
work on projects that are both technically innovative as well as applicable in
the real world.

"It is so interesting to learn how clients run their businesses, or understand
the development cycle of a product," said Sood.

After she began working, she also was able to reflect on the MEM classes that
she found most useful in her day-to-day activities. She particularly pointed
to her classes in accounting and finance. "Learning these basic accounting
principles served me well working in the retail industry," Sood replied.

Sood also points to her MEM program internship as a critical learning
experience. While still able to complete the degree in one year, she worked
full time at the Research Triangle Institute in Research Triangle Park as a
Technology Assessor. She gauged technology invention disclosures for market
potential and recommended actions to clients based on her discoveries. This
actual real-life work experience allowed her a smooth transition into her
current job at BlueCube Software, and it also provided her with tons of hands-
on advice.

The internship experience is a strength of the MEM program, she advises
students considering the program. "Get real world experience," Sood counsels,
"before and during your program, whether volunteer or paid." It is this actual
experience that truly allows individuals to learn what career is right for
them, she said.

Sood says the MEM program complemented her skills. "You may receive the tools
in the classroom, but it is in your experiences where you receive the
education," she said.

Adhering to her own philosophy, Sood finds herself extending her education in
new and exciting ways everyday.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

