

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Entrepreneur Kimberly Jenkins Named Executive-In-Residence at Duke
Engineering Management Program

October 1, 2005

Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering has appointed information
technology entrepreneur Kimberly J. Jenkins as executive-in-residence in the
Master of Engineering Management (MEM) program.

Jenkins is now serving, on a volunteer basis, as a mentor to students in the
MEM program and faculty at Duke interested in technology commercialization.
She also plans to explore ways to increase the number of women and minorities
in commercial technology innovation and entrepreneurial careers.

Jenkins, a Duke graduate, is the former president of the Internet Policy
Institute, an independent, nonprofit research and educational institute that
examines global internet use policy issues. She was also the founder, chairman
and president of Highway 1, a nonprofit corporation focused on helping the
federal government operate more effectively through the use of information
technologies.

During her career in management Jenkins founded Microsoft's Education
Division, ran market development at NeXT, and worked as a technical analyst
for Control Data Corporation. She has also served as a consultant to companies
such as Microsoft, Apple, Sun, Oracle and Cisco.

Kimberly Jenkins will be working with students and faculty on various
activities related to women in entrepreneurship and women in engineering,"
said Jeff Glass, director of the MEM Program. "With her successful background
in business, she will be an excellent role model for our engineering
management students who plan to enter the business world after graduation. She
will also bridge programs in the Arts and Sciences at Duke with the Pratt
School of Engineering's Master of Engineering Management Program to enhance
cross disciplinary learning for all students involved."

Jenkins already has organized a research study with two students to better
understand why so few women and minorities choose commercial technology and
entrepreneurial careers.

Many women choose careers in small business and non-profit organizations, but
very few opt to pursue for profit, technology oriented, commercial endeavors,"
Jenkins said. "There is tremendous interest in understanding and solving this
problem, but very little research has been conducted to date." She said she
plans to then help Duke establish the courses, programs and internships needed
to help foster more robust involvement of these populations.

Jenkins currently serves on the Duke University Board of Trustees, where she
chairs the Committee for Institutional Advancement. She is also a member of
the Duke University Health Systems Board and the Kenan Institute for Ethics
Board.

* * *

The MEM professional degree program develops future industry leaders by
combining a core management curriculum with a master's level technical
education and an engineering internship. The program combines technical
courses and includes business law, finance, marketing, and management courses
with an emphasis on technology management, innovation management and
entrepreneurship. The degree is offered with the support of Duke's Fuqua
School of Business and the Duke School of Law.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

