

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Fulbright, a Life Changing Journey

September 2, 2014

_Amine Bounoughaz recently completed Duke's Master of Engineering Management
on a Fulbright Scholarship. Originally from Boumerdes in Algeria, he applied
to the Fulbright program in 2012, and in his words, "Here I am, chasing my
dreams at one of the best educational institutions in the world."_

_In this article, originally posted as a note on Facebook, he shares share his
experience applying for the Fulbright program, being selected, and becoming a
graduate student at Duke University. He concludes the article with advice for
other interested students._

## Why did I apply for Fulbright?

In the summer of 2010, and during my junior year of college, I was selected by
the US State Department to participate in an exchange program called the
Middle East Partnership Initiative Student leaders program, or MEPI. I was
placed at the beautiful Georgetown campus in Washington DC for five weeks
where I studied leadership and politics. For an engineering student, this
experience greatly expanded my thinking and opened my eyes on the importance
of leadership in today’s organizations. Being at Georgetown was also an
opportunity for me to experience the American education system firsthand,
based on the two-way interaction lecturing format and inside and outside of
classroom learning.

At the end of that summer, I set a goal for myself: Pursue graduate studies in
the United States, preferably in a field that encompasses both technology and
management. With a few clicks on the net, I found the perfect program for me;
Duke’s Master of Engineering Management.

Now that I knew what I wanted to do, I came to the question of How? Coming
from a country where the purchasing power is considerably lower than that of
the United States, affording that kind of education was practically
impossible. Then, a friend told me about Fulbright. I looked it up, and I was
both amazed and intimidated to see the caliber of the grantees, ranging from
prime ministers, politicians, thinkers, scientists and even Noble prize
winners. However, I was determined to give it my best, so I started preparing
my application.

## My Application Process

Applying to American universities from Algeria is definitely not piece of
cake. In a country where most students who decide to go abroad choose France
or Canada, given the familiarity of the language and the similarity of the
education system, resources and information about applying to the United
States were very scarce.

GRE, Personal Statement, Statement of Purpose: These were all unheard of among
students and even teachers. So my first task was to understand how the
application process works. Fortunately, the Fulbright Officer in my country,
Ms.Nadia Ouhenia, was kind enough to answer my preliminary questions and point
me in the right direction.

Since I would be graduating that same year, which meant that I would have a
very busy year ahead, I decided to clear the hurdles of GRE and TOEFL
examinations in the summer before school began. After spending a few weeks
preparing for these tests using resources I found on the internet, I finally
summoned up my courage and sat for them. My results were very satisfactory as
I was within the range of admission for the top 10 colleges in the United
States. I also spent quite some time perfecting my personal statement with the
help of friends who were kind enough to thoroughly review my essays.

This was definitely one of the most enjoyable parts of the process, since it
gave me an opportunity to retrospect and understand who I am and what I want,
something I try to do more often now.

Now that all my preparations were complete, I anxiously waited for the
application to open up.

## The Interview

Two weeks after the closing of online applications, I received an email from
the US Embassy stating that I was selected for an interview, which was going
to be in two days. The only problem was that was not physically present in
Algeria, I was 10,588 miles away in Sydney, Australia, participating in the
world’s premiere technology competition for students; Microsoft Imagine Cup.
The fastest trip available was going to take three days, which meant that
there was no possible way I would be able to attend my interview.

Given how hard I worked on my application, I was not about to give up. I
emailed the selection committee, explaining my circumstances and that I was
part of the first Algerian team to ever win a prize in Microsoft Imagine Cup.
They eventually agreed to conduct a phone interview with me.

The interview lasted only 10 minutes, during which I had a chance to tell my
story and why I should be a Fulbrighter. I must have done very well, because a
few days letter, I received an official email stating that I was officially a
Fulbright nominee.

## The Waiting

Being a Fulbright nominee is not the last step in the process. The final
decision was to be made by the Fulbright Scholarship Board (FSB) in Washington
DC, which would take a whole year! Also, historically, only half of the
Fulbright nominees would eventually receive offers. In other words, as a
Fulbright nominee, you have a 50% chances of receiving an offer, depending on
the outcomes of the FSB meeting, as well as the availability of funds.
Although last year’s batch, everyone who was a nominee eventually received a
grant. So it really depends on the year and the budget allotted for that
batch.

Of all steps in the process, this was by far the hardest since there was
nothing much to do other than wait and hope for the best. However, since I
gave it my absolute best, I had a clear conscience.

After nine months of waiting, I received my official offer letter. I finally
became a Fulbright Grantee.

## The United States

Last August, a new chapter of my life began as I boarded a plane to the United
States. Even though I had been to the US twice already, this trip was
completely different, since it was something I worked so hard for. Also, it
was the very first time I would be away from home for a long time.

My first destination was Lincoln University, Philadelphia where I was invited
for an orientation conference to help me prepare for my stay in the United
States. The conference spanned four days and covered different topics of
interest for international students in the United States, such as the American
education system, the cultural shock, the nature of Americans,... It was also
the opportunity to meet Fulbrighters from around the world and have some fun
before the busy graduate school began.

## Duke University

At the end of my orientation seminar, I boarded a plane to Raleigh-Durham
Airport, feeling excited, anxious and scared. I was about to set foot in a
place I dreamed of for so long, and worked so hard for. After my plane landed,
I took a cab to my apartment where I met my roommate, Cristobal from Chile,
whom I only spoke to a few times on Facebook before. My other roommate,
Richard from Miami, would not arrive for another two weeks.

After examining the apartment, it was time to go to campus, the moment I had
been awaiting for three years. I arrived , and it was beyond my expectations:
The beautiful buildings, the green spaces, the very social squirrels and of
course, my favorite of all, the Duke Chapel. Just when I thought I could not
possibly love this more, the Chapel bells started playing a delightful melody
and the whole scene was just majestic.

Looking back at my time there now, all I can say is that it was a blast; I got
the chance to be tutored by amazing professors, with incredible biographies
and experiences, to interact with brilliant students from all over the world,
to challenge myself beyond my limits and to grow as a person. I learned as
much outside the classroom as inside, such as how to balance my work/life and
how to master my time and energy. All these paid off in a near perfect GPA, an
award as the Shining Star of the program and being chosen to deliver the
graduation speech on behalf of my batch.

## Tips for Applying to Fulbright

After boring you with my life story, if you are considering giving this
wonderful program a shot, I hope the following tips will help you throughout
your application process:

### 1\. Start early:

Start preparing for your admission tests (TOEFL, GRE, GMAT) early on in the
process and don’t wait until the Fulbright online application opens up. This
would free you up to focus on other aspects of your application but also it
would give you enough time in case you need to sit for the tests again.

Another important thing is to spend a considerable time writing your personal
statement. Make sure to retrospect and choose the stories that highlight your
strengths and achievements as an individual while communicating your
struggles, weaknesses and how you have worked to overcome them. Stay truthful
and genuine and make sure to have your essays reviewed by people you trust.

### 2\. Have a compelling story:

In my opinion, Fulbright is not about perfect GPAs nor extraordinary
achievement, it is about having a compelling story, connecting the dots in a
way so powerful and so meaningful that makes this scholarship something you
badly want and deserve. After all your interview panel are not going to
remember how much you scored on a particular class (unless it was really bad),
probably not even your name, but they will remember your story and how genuine
and compelling it is. That is most probably the hardest part of the process,
but if you get it right, everything else will fall into place.

Personally, one of the most inspiring books I read that helped me put things
into perspective was a book entitled: “The Last Lecture” by Pr. Randy Pausch.
Or if you are not a book person, you can always watch the video lecture
entitled “Achieving Your Childhood Dreams” (available on youtube).

### 3\. Ask for help:

Whenever you need information about the program or you are stuck somewhere,
reach out to the Fulbright officer in your country or to any Fulbright alumni
you might have in your network. Even if they can’t help you, they will always
point you in the right direction.

### 4\. Enjoy the ride:

Did I mention it takes a year for Fulbright to grant you an admission? It is
definitely a long time to wait, it is a bumpy ride so make sure you enjoy
every step as much as you can, keep leading your life and hopefully you will
end up receiving that offer :)

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

