

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Giving Gasoline That Power Shot - Greenly

May 8, 2009

How's this for a great recipe -- use environment toxins to improve energy
efficiency?

Start with two chemicals, each of which is a noxious industrial byproduct.
Combine. Package resulting liquid in eight-ounce bottles. Slap PowerShot on
the label. Sell for $4.95 a pop. Put in gas tank.

"When added at same time you fill your car up with gasoline, PowerShot can
boost octane, and improve gas mileage from between 5 to 15 percent," said
Jacqueline Coates, one of four students in Duke's Masters of Engineering
Management program who developed a business plan for developing and marketing
this novel green product. "Ethanol, the latest gasoline additive to gasoline,
has reduced miles per gallon by up to 20 percent. We believe there is a better
solution."

The start-up company is known CPS Biofuels, and the other students who
developed the business plan include Lauren Knish, Hosoon Lim and Taka
Yamazaki. Raleigh-based CPS Biofuels was founded by David Bradin, principle
scientist and patent attorney; Marty Trivette, chief executive officer; and
Duke professor Guerry Grune, chief operating officer.

The group's business plan for the start-up recently placed third in the Global
Venture Challenge Idea-to-Product competition held annually at the Oak Ridge
National Laboratory in Tennessee. The team, which was judged by a panel of
energy executives, venture capitalists, technologists, entrepreneurs and
lawyers, won $5,000. The event is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy
and UT-Batelle.

"We presented our plan three times – in a practice round, the semi-finals and
finals," Knish said of the Oak Ridge competition. "It was a great experience
because we got extremely helpful feedback and learned a lot about everything
involved in creating a business, as well as important tips for pitching new
ideas."

The project began in last spring's Intellectual Property Asset Management
class, when the students were intrigued that the PowerShot idea presented to
them by student advicor Grune could become a viable company. The team has
since been studying the technology involved in creating the product,
researching any potential intellectual property issues and developing the
business and marketing plan.

"After lead was removed as an octane-booster from gasoline mid-90s, other
additives were added to increase octane, such as MTBE (methyl tert butyl
ether), which has environmental issues, or more recently ethanol," said
Coates. "Our additive, which will be sold over the counter, increases miles
per gallon and could save as much as 50 cents per gallon at the pump. It's
also easier on the engine than ethanol."

Chemically, PowerShot is glycerol tert butyl ether (GTBE), which is made by
combining two chemicals. The first is crude glycerol, a byproduct of the
production of biodiesel which is normally sent to landfills. The second is
isobutylene, a byproduct of petroleum refining.

"It is the first and only renewable, green biomass-derived biofuel additive to
date," Knish added. "The entire process can be handled domestically, and the
additive should help any grade of gasoline or diesel."

The company plans to spend 2009 raising money, lining up retailers and
sponsors, as well as forging partnerships with distributors. The team
envisages the company beginning manufacturing PowerShot in 2009 and being
profitable after its first full year of sales.

Team members will receive their MEM degrees this spring after having completed
their undergraduate work at other universities. Coates did her undergraduate
work at the University of Michigan, Knish at Vanderbilt University, Lim at
Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, and Yamazaki at Yokahama
National University.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

