

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Grand Challenges: The Evolution of Health-Care Technology

September 15, 2014

A team of engineering students in the Master of Engineering Management program
participated in a project that explored ways to meet Grand Challenges. Read
the Forbes article here.

The objective of this project was to assess the impact of exponential advances
in sensors and computing technology on entrepreneurship, with a focus on one
of the major grand challenges that humanity faces today, affordable
healthcare. We documented the recent trends in healthcare industry and
predicted future disruptions that may spur entrepreneurial growth. Based on a
recent report by McKinsey & Company, health care is now the largest industry
in the world. However, it is facing serious challenges in terms of future
growth and product innovation. We focused on technologies such as Point-of-
care devices (POC), Drug Delivery Systems and Organ-on-a-chip, which could
break this logjam and evaluated their impact on the health care industry, in
terms of cost and patient-physician relationship.

With Global biochips market expected to reach $11.4 billion by the year 2018
and POC market reaching $ 19 billion, the scope for entrepreneurs and
investors in this field is enormous. Not to mention, these technologies will
be solving some of the pressing issues, which majority of world’s population
is currently facing.

As mentor of this project, Prof. Vivek Wadhwa said "I'm optimistic because
technology is advancing so rapidly that we will start solving some of the
Grand Challenges like hunger, poverty and energy. Not to say that we're going
to clean everything up but we will have technological solutions to problems
and then the challenge would be to implement them - which is much better than
not having a solution at all!"

The team include MEM students Harsh Ambekar, Aditya Prathipati, and Apaar
Sharma.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

