

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Half of Americans See Other Country as Technological Leader

March 24, 2009

DURHAM, N.C. -– Half of all Americans expect another country to emerge this
century as the world's leader in addressing technological challenges that
range from the economy to global warming, according to a survey of U.S. public
opinion released March 3 by Duke University.

Although only 34 percent of Americans gave themselves a grade of A or B for
understanding "the world of engineers and what they do," 72 percent
nonetheless expect the technological advancements of the 21st century to
surpass those of the previous century. However, only 49 percent predict the
United States will lead the way in producing these advances, according to the
survey of 808 adults carried out Jan. 22-25 by Hart Research Associates.

Duke's Pratt School of Engineering commissioned the survey, Americans
Attitudes Toward Engineering and Engineering Challenges, for a national summit
on engineering "grand challenges" it is co-hosting March 2-3 in Durham.

Americans with more education are even less optimistic about the likelihood
the United States will be the world's technological leader in the 21st
century. China was cited by 20 percent of all the respondents as being most
likely to assume this position, followed by Japan and Europe at 10 percent
each, and India at 4 percent. Americans were just as likely to say their
country's ability to compete technologically over the past century has
worsened as to say it has improved.

Among those who see a decline in America's ability to compete technologically,
55 percent say the situation is temporary and 39 percent say it is long term.

Americans understand that innovation is critical to their future, but also
recognize that our country's continued leadership isn't assured just because
we invented everything from the airplane to the personal computer, said Thomas
Katsouleas, dean of the Pratt School. The survey shows that when Americans
focus on how central engineers are to solving our biggest problems, they come
to view the discipline as essential and want to attract more talented young
people to it.

In response to a list of major engineering challenges facing the world, those
surveyed gave highest priority to developing better medicines, providing clean
water around the world and developing environmentally friendly power sources.
They gave less priority to securing cyberspace against attacks or to restoring
and improving deteriorating urban infrastructures.

The respondents said the best ways to improve U.S. global competitiveness are
with more training for workers, improved K-12 math and science teaching, and
tougher standards for public school teachers and students. They were much less
likely to endorse tax breaks for business and investment, or new immigration
policies to attract foreign engineers and other technical experts.

A majority of the respondents -- 58 percent -- said engineering is losing out
to other professions when it comes to young people choosing careers. They said
this is happening because engineering does not pay as much as other fields,
requires extensive schooling and is seen as being difficult. "Not as
glamorous" was cited least often among seven possible answers in explaining
why engineering has been a less attractive career choice.

Katsouleas released the survey results Tuesday morning during the two-day
summit Duke is hosting with the University of Southern California Viterbi
School of Engineering and Olin College. More than 1,000 people registered for
the event, which is bringing together "leading engineering, science,
humanities and social science scholars from across the nation" to discuss a
series of societal "grand challenges" laid out by the National Academy of
Engineering.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

