

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Industry-Based Practicums Offer Students Real-World Project Experiences

May 22, 2009

Duke's Pratt School of Engineering encourages student collaboration with
industry, and the Master of Engineering Management Program (MEMP) fosters such
collaboration through practicums, internships, seminars, and workshops. One
successful example is the MEM Consulting Practicum Program (CPP) offered
through the popular course EGRMGMT 296.

Conceived in 2004 by MEM Directors Jeff Glass and Brad Fox, the CPP provides
students with 4-5 industry-based projects per semester with sponsors that have
included Microsoft, Parsons Engineering, Alliance One International, and Hill-
Rom among others. Modeling the CPP after a management consulting firm, a
faculty supervisor selects 4-6 student consultants per project through a
job-application process.

Selected students are responsible for all project planning, execution,
management, and client interactions. Students have regular teleconferences (or
live meetings) with industrial sponsors to review project progress, and the
project culminates in a final presentation to industry executives along with
the delivery of a professional-grade report. From proposals to PERT charts to
timesheets Â– the CPP provides a window into how a real consulting team would
execute a successful project with industry.

Finding cutting-edge projects that are of keen importance to the sponsor is
one of our top selection criteria, said Professor Joseph Holmes, Program
Manager for the CPP. As in industry, we measure project success based upon
client satisfaction and results, not activity. Other keys to program success
are utilizing seasoned industry veterans as project mentors, such as Professor
Greg Hopper, who understand the balance of providing guidance to students
while letting them find their own way.

Recent MEM CPP projects have included the following:

    * Students Ishan Dixit, Viswanatha Kanala, Matthew LaFiandra, Aditya Raghu, Anisha Sequeira, and Xiao Zhao developed an Earned Value Management (EVM) tool and strategy for Parsons Engineering;

    * Swetha Kolluri, Harsimarbir Singh, Aboyewa Uduaghan, and Gonzague de Vimal du Bouchet completed an analysis and recommended a strategy on the emerging carbon trading market for Alliance One International;

    * Shannon Connelly, Lauren Knish, Ashok Manepalli, Jay Mattappally, Gautham Pandiyan, Karl Runbeck, and Noel Schexnayder, developed a marketing strategy for an intellectual property portfolio of 40 patents for Protein Polymer Technologies; and

    * Shabnam Khan, Luo Yan Zhou, Yi Zhou developed a strategy for web-based financial management software coming from a spin-out of McLean Wealth Management.

These projects have no right answer, and students often struggle with
inherent ambiguity and open-ended nature of many of the projects, which leads
to many teachable moments. The MEM CPP contributes to creating a business-
savvy engineer—a key goal of the MEMP.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

