

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Jeffrey Glass Named Head of Master of Engineering Management Program at Duke

July 11, 2003

Jeffrey T. Glass has joined Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering as
the Hogg Family Director of Engineering Management and Entrepreneurship and
professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.

In announcing the appointment Wednesday, Pratt Dean Kristina Johnson said
Glass will expand an already successful professional program that provides
advanced training in engineering management, finance and marketing so its
graduates "can hit the ground running" in industry upon graduation.

"Jeff brings outstanding scholarship and leadership to the school,
particularly in building engineering management programs," Johnson said. "He
developed a wonderful program at Case Western Reserve University, which we
will use as a model to expand our program at Duke."

Glass came to Duke from Case Western Reserve, where he was the Joseph F. Toot
Jr. endowed chair in the Case School of Engineering and the co-director of The
Institute for the Integration of Management and Engineering.

"In today's competitive environment, engineers must integrate closely with
their company's business functions and must understand the business
ramifications of their decisions," Glass said. "Duke's Master of Engineering
Management (MEM) program gives Duke graduates a jump-start on this knowledge
and enables them to more effectively transition to leadership roles."

Glass said his vision for the MEM program includes meeting the increasing
needs of engineers already in industry who are taking on more management
responsibility.

"In addition, the program will provide engineers with the knowledge and skills
that help companies improve their innovation processes and become more
entrepreneurial, thereby addressing ever-changing market needs and increasing
their financial strength," he said.

Professor April Brown, chair of Duke's electrical and computer engineering
department, said that in addition to leading the MEM program, Glass will be
actively engaged in materials and devices research.

"Jeff has made significant and fundamental contributions in the fields of wide
bandgap semiconductor materials and devices," she said. "JIU am very pleased
to have the chance to work with him."

Prior to his appointment at Case Western Reserve, Glass served as vice
president of research and development for Kobe Steel USA Inc. He also has been
a tenured faculty member in the Department of Materials Science and
Engineering at North Carolina State University and continues to hold an
adjunct appointment with that department. He also holds an adjunct appointment
at the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina.

Glass earned his bachelor's and master's degrees from Johns Hopkins University
and a PhD in materials science and engineering from the University of
Virginia. He also received an MBA from Duke's Global Executive (GEMBA) program
in 1999.

His technical research has focused on the growth and characterization of thin
films for electronics, primarily diamond, zinc oxide and silicon carbide.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

