

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Kaustubh Kaushik: Developing Managerial Skills

January 28, 2023

The 2022 Duke Engineering Management master's graduate interned with
e-commerce site Forbes Vetted

**Hometown:** Varanasi, India  
 **Graduated:** December 2022

> “Duke has helped me develop managerial skills for high-tech organizations.”
>
> **Kaustubh Kaushik** |Master of Engineering Management

What has been your best experience at Duke and the Pratt School of
Engineering?

My best experience at the Pratt School of Engineering had to be the management
simulation as part of 542: Competitive Strategy in Technology-Based
Industries, a course taught by Tony O'Driscoll. The idea of creating shared
value was the highlight of the experience.

What were your favorite courses?

I was part of several exciting and insightful courses at Duke. However, my
favorites were 576: Design Thinking and Innovation taught by Kathie Amato, and
Prof. Driscoll’s competitive strategies course.

Both courses were built on exploring the ideas of empathy and creating shared
value for all stakeholders, especially users.

Duke has helped me develop managerial skills through courses like 540:
Management of High-Tech Industries while allowing me to create the direct
skills necessary to deliver products.

Where did you do your internship?

I interned at Forbes as a product management intern for their platform team. I
worked on integrating various technological services with their Forbes Vetted
and digital assets services.

During the final week of my internship, I reviewed the preliminary results of
my initiatives, and I felt accomplished knowing that the initiatives showed
encouraging results, with the digital wallet signups increasing by over 10
percent in just two weeks.

What are your career aspirations?

I want to work for companies that need people who can understand and work at
the intersection of technology and business to deliver user-driven solutions.
I plan to develop ideas and enterprises focused on enabling people's lives
through technology built on the foundations of empathy, trust and inclusivity.

What advice would you give to students considering Duke Engineering?

Be curious and seek opportunities that push you out of your comfort zone
because that’s where actual growth happens. your comfort zone.

The Master of Engineering Management is a degree program in Duke Engineering's
Institute for Enterprise Engineering. To explore all our education programs,
visit ene.duke.edu »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

