

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEM Alum Provides Essay for Book on Millennials

May 1, 2013

MEM Alum Shoaib Rahim recently co-authored an essay for Millennials Speak.
Essays on the 21st Century, a collaboration among writers from across the
globe.

* * *

_**From Amazon:** **Millennials Speak. Essays on the 21st Century** is a
crowdsourced and crowdfunded production. It is a snapshot of the ideas and
opinions of the global Millennial Generation. Twenty writers from five
continents, a diverse mix of young academics, policy professionals, and future
thought and creative leaders, cover topics from the legacy of the Arab Spring,
the global food system, the U.S. student loan crisis, youth unemployment, to
popular culture._

_Global youth unemployment stands at 12.7% and is expected to rise. Presently,
more than half of the 7 billion people alive are under the age of 30; almost
half of the world's population is under the age of 25. In the Arab world, an
average 27.5 percent of the total youth population is unemployed. Youth
unemployment in both the Eurozone and in the United States, the world's
largest regional and national economy, respectively, is more than twice that
of the rest of the population. What do people from these regions have to say
about these trends?_

_Much of the work and research regarding the Millennial Generation is very
American-centric. But for a globally-connected and aware generation, limiting
the scope of study to a single country misses the mark for such a diverse
global demographic. The writers hope to fill some of that gap with this book._

* * *

Shoaib is a Fulbright Scholar and a graduate of the Master of Engineering
Management Program at Duke University. He is currently living and working in
his home country of Afghanistan where he runs a consulting firm providing
technology consulting and management consulting services to local companies.
He also coaches the debate team at the American University of Afghanistan on a
voluntary basis and works with other youth groups in Kabul focusing on
development issues.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

