

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEM Student Brings Many Talents to the Entrepreneurial World

May 4, 2009

Legions of genetically souped-up silkworms could someday produce a substance
that more effectively protects troops in battle at less than half the weight
of current body armor.

It has been long known that the silk spun by spiders is remarkably strong and
flexible. However, the main challenge to date in harnessing this natural
wonder is the difficulty in lining enough spiders to produce high quantities
of silk.

That's where the silkworms come in.

Scientists have developed a way to take the spider gene responsible for silk
production and to insert it into the genetic make-up of the common silkworm,
creating a virtually limitless supply of spider-silk producing worms. The
worms spin the silk around themselves, creating cocoons that resemble fuzzy
white grapes.

Once the worm has finished spinning his silky cocoon, the bundle is heated
(alas killing the worm) to harvest the silk. Then, the new silk can be spun on
existing equipment into almost any shape or configuration.

The technology driving this new approach to silk production belongs to a
start-up company called EntoGenetics, which was the overall winner at the
recent Duke Start-Up Challenge. A member of that team is Gautham Pandiyan, an
energetic and entrepreneurial student in Duke's Master of Engineering
Management (MEM) program. As an EntoGenetics business development associate,
he is involved in grant writing, fundraising from investors and business plan
development.

"The silk is five times stronger than steel and twice as strong as Kevlar, the
currently used material in bullet-proof vests," Pandiyan explained. "Current
body armor used by the military can weigh up to 35 pounds, which is a lot of
weight to carry around in a battle. Armor made of silk would be significantly
lighter and stronger."

In addition to its uses as body armor, the silk could also be used to create
stronger rope, parachutes or sutures. The company even approached Victoria's
Secret to gauge the lingerie firm's interest in its new product.

Just as the silk has many potential uses, Pandiyan himself brings together a
variety of different skills he has gained during his academic and business
careers. Now completing his MEM degree, he previously earned an undergraduate
degree from the University of Georgia in genetics and cellular biology, and
then a master's degree in molecular cancer biology at Duke.

"While I was here working on cancer biology in medical center, I took the
Invention to Application course taught by Barry Myers, and it opened up a
whole new world for me," he recalls. Myers is the Anderson-Rupp Professor of
Biomedical Engineering and director of Duke's Center for Entrepreneurship and
Research Commercialization (CERC). "I started taking more business classes as
my interest grew. Instead of focusing narrowly on a single subject, like I was
in one area of cancer biology, the combination of science and business allowed
me to look more broadly at the big picture."

In 2006, he was part of a team of MBA and PhD students that developed a
business plan around a Duke faculty member's invention that subsequently
formed the basis for the creation of Durham-based Neuroscience
Pharmaceuticals. Also, as an intern in Duke's Office of Licensing and
Ventures, he performed additional work for the company. Later, he worked as a
student consultant along with a team of fellow MEM students on a practicum
project for San Diego-based Protein Polymers Technology Inc.

All these experiences have given him a diverse set of skills and interests to
succeed in the entrepreneurial world, he said.

Last fall, Pandiyan worked closely with Larry Boyd, associate director of
CERC, planning and running Entrepreneurship Week encompassing seven days of
sessions for entrepreneurs-to-be and the kick-off to the Start-Up Challenge.

"Gautham has some important traits to be a successful entrepreneur, but for
me, the most telling is his attitude," Boyd said. "He is always upbeat and has
a can-do sort of attitude in everything we've done together. I know I can
count on him to be engaged and enthusiastic.

"He also has a good balance between passion and deliberate thoughtfulness,"
Boyd continued. "He has a really interesting intersection of skills that will
take him a long way in whatever he decides to do. I know it's a challenging
job market now, but if anyone is going to make it, it will be someone like
Gautham."

He will finish his studies in September.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

