

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEM Program Led Lingamneni Straight to Career at Microsoft

August 7, 2007

After traveling across the globe from his birthplace in Hyderabad, India to
join Duke's Masters of Engineering Management Program, 21-year-old Nishanth
Lingamneni found himself one of the youngest people in his class, having no
prior full-time work experience. Nevertheless—just one year later—he had his
choice of two prime U.S. jobs: product manager for Microsoft Corp or senior
marketing analyst for Alltel Communications. In July 2007, after a six-month
hiatus rediscovering his home country and other parts of Asia, Lingamneni
began his career at Microsoft in Redmond, WA.

## A Budding Marketer

Lingamneni said he had initially "followed the crowd" to study engineering.
Yet, he soon realized that his interest lay not in the development of
technology itself, but rather in the marketing of technology. That interest
led him to Duke's MEM program, where he tailored his course electives
accordingly, enrolling in classes in technology commercialization and
strategic planning, among others.

Outside of class, he found plenty of opportunities to get involved. He was a
founding member of the MEM Program's development committee, aimed at improving
efforts to recruit new students to the one-year program. He also worked on an
effort to inform potential employers about the program's success in arming
engineers with a variety of business and management skills.

His inspiration for supporting the program, which he has continued to do since
graduation by making presentations in Singapore and elsewhere, was simple.

"After you get to Duke, you realize it's a big family down there," he said.
"People help you and you help people."

## Taking the Plunge

Soon after his arrival at Duke, Lingamneni heard a presentation from
entrepreneur-in-residence Vivek Wadhwa about a study he was launching on the
outsourcing of jobs to developing nations including India and China. Wadhwa
was looking to enlist five students in conducting research on the number of
engineering degrees being awarded overseas relative to those issued within the
U.S. The numbers frequently cited at the time suggested that the U.S. was
falling far behind.

Lingamneni volunteered and took charge of obtaining more accurate numbers
about engineering graduates in his native India.

"Getting that one number took us two months," he said.

But it was well worth the effort. The study results challenged the notion that
the U.S. was slipping behind developing nations to the degree earlier
statistics had indicated.

The statistics released from organizations in China and India include not only
four-year degrees, but also three-year degrees and diploma holders, their
report said. These numbers have been compared against the annual production
of accredited four-year engineering degrees in the United States."

The revised tally raised the number of graduates in the U.S. to 222,335,
compared to 215,000 in India and 644,106 in China. The findings received
widespread attention in the national and international media.

"We expected to show up in Science Magazine, or maybe a few web sites,"
Lingamneni said. "We were shocked by the attention. Nobody expected it. My
parents were calling to ask why I was in the Hindustan Times. Every major
newspaper in India carried our name."

## The Path to Microsoft

Lingamneni landed a summer internship at Microsoft. There, he worked on the
marketing of PC Gaming and Windows Media Center. To be successful, the job
required him to learn everything there was to know about the features of the
products and what they had to offer to consumers.

"No one is an expert at first," he said. "You have to talk to developers,
program managers, marketers and work with the product itself. You have to know
exactly what it can and cannot do, how it does what it does and most
importantly, why people would want to buy it."

He ultimately enjoyed his experience enough to take a full-time job working on
the same team he interned with that summer. As the first in his family to come
to America, Lingamneni said he hopes to gain at least a few years of
experience here before he may consider taking his newfound expertise back to
India.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

