

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEM Student Start-Up Sure to Be a Success

May 13, 2009

When Baris Guzel, a Turkey native working in Germany, came to the US to get
his MEM degree at Duke, he quickly discovered that America, among other
things, is a country that uses technology efficiency. His in-box was quickly
bombarded with emails asking him to complete surveys for anything from rating
student services to registering for Fuqua courses. This was a new phenomenon
for Baris, one that he had not experienced in Europe. He saw an opportunity
not only to bring an internet based survey tool to Europe, but to bring a new
improved survey tool.

Baris quickly partnered with fellow MEM student Rohit Joy, and the two founded
Ampoll.com. Between Bariss entrepreneurial spirit and Rohits impressive
technical skills and innovative thinking, the two were able to hit the ground
running and create a topnotch survey tool that will surely be a success.
Ampoll is designed to operate as a what-you-see-is-what-you-get (WYSIWYG)
tool. Rather than using a drop down box to select the type of question you
want on your survey, you will simply drag and drop from a box already on your
screen. This new WYSIWYG user interface will change the way that people create
surveys by making the process easier and faster. Another great feature of
Ampoll is that it is free! Unlike most survey tools that have a monthly fee
associated with them, Ampoll will be funded by ad sales alone (similar to what
you see on Facebook).

Baris and Rohit plan to launch Ampoll in the US and in Turkey simultaneously
and then to spread out over Europe, India and China. They had not originally
planned to target US markets, but have quickly realized that there is a
growing demand here for a better survey tool. Baris and Rohit recently added
some staff to their project to help get things going. MEM student, Clement
Ramos, has come aboard as the Ampoll Web Designer, MEM alumni Melda Uzbil,
Pragati Anand, and ShenShen Yi are helping with global marketing efforts, and
MEM Executive in Residence, Vivek Wadhwa, has joined Ampolls Board of
Directors. The next big push for the Ampoll team is to get the company into
the DUHatch this summer.

Rohit Joy is a recent MEM graduate from Pune, India. He enjoys listening to
NPR, watching documentaries, playing Pool in the Bryan Center, and trying new
recipes. Rohit hopes to be a product manager or manager for new business
development with a fun innovative company at some point in the future. Baris
Guzel will graduate from the MEM program this May. He enjoys charcoal drawing
and hopes to be a Duerer one day. Both Baris and Rohit love the friendly
atmosphere in the US and have enjoyed their time at Duke.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

