

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEM Team Tackles GPS App Product Launch

April 8, 2014

Product management ambition connects Duke Master of Engineering Management
Program (MEMP) students with a young tech company’s new product launch.

When a team of five young women from Duke stepped foot in the Henderson, North
Carolina office of Propel GPS, they had no idea what to expect. They had been
connected with the Virginia-based company, founded by CEO and Duke alumnus
Rick Burtner T’79, through the Duke Master of Engineering Management
Consulting Practicum Program, led by Professor Joey Holmes (MBA‘03, CEO of
management consulting company Acuity Edge) and Industry Mentor Jim Sund
(MBA’01, PhD’07, CEO of AccuFlow Imaging).

Their task: help the young tech company launch its new Global Positioning
System (GPS) app into the marketplace.

MEMP student Neha Kesari’s entrepreneurial passion for product development and
computer science background had tugged her interest in the project.

“Having previously interned in consulting at Deloitte, working with a start-up
was a completely new experience,” said Neha. “In some ways, it’s a culture
shock. A pleasant one, but still a shock.”

“One of the biggest surprises was the wall painting of an oak tree that
greeted us in the conference room. Rick Burtner went on to tell us the story
behind it,” said fellow student Margaret Kuleshova, who favored this project
for its potential to provide hands-on product marketing experience. “A local
high school student had painted it in a matter of hours – quality artwork that
could have taken days to complete. The metaphor stood for the growth of the
company from an acorn into an oak tree and linked all the contributors
together, including past Practicum team members.”

“It’s exciting to be a part of something like this,” said Renee Luo, another
member of the student team. She had previously worked on marketing projects
and couldn’t wait to apply her prior experience. “But it’s so different.
Working with social media and smartphone applications is yet another part of
marketing. You’re dealing with people more than the product, but you still
can’t forget that your ultimate goal is to encourage sales. So there’s a lot
to juggle. How do you appeal to your customer? How do you make them listen to
you? What persona are you going to speak through to catch their attention? How
do you sound more genuine than pushy? You can’t let one idea dominate your
marketing; it has to be an effective mix.”

The new product, Dashboks, is a GPS tracker and smartphone application
intended for parents with teen drivers and elderly parents with Alzheimer’s.
After the user installs a miniature “black box” in the car they intend to
track, information is sent to an app on their phone. E-mail and text alerts
are sent when speed thresholds are triggered or virtual areas called geofences
are crossed.

“What they’re really doing is trying to create peace of mind and a sense of
security,” said Vidya Bulusu (MEMP ’14), the fourth member of the team and the
team lead for social media. “It’s a big emotional investment and our job was
to help their customers realize it.”

“The company is our client,” added Neha, “and their clients are our clients
too. We have to consider all the stakeholders. For a young tech company that’s
used to business-to-business sales this is completely new ground. They’re not
used to dealing with end users but they have a good idea of who they should
target and how, thanks to the Fall Practicum team. Now we’re here to pick up
the pieces and get the ball rolling.”

“As innovators and engineers, we first learn how to bring creativity,
simplicity, and genius to our designs, but we often don’t stop to think of how
the design impacts the customer or how they perceive the value of the
product,” said Margaret.

The MEMP team also had a chance to collaborate with Duke Computer Science
students Scott Cara and Angelica Schwartz, both advised by Professor Richard
Lucic.

“I had plenty of experience working on large software design assignments. When
I entered my independent study period working for Propel GPS, I expected a
similar experience,” said Scott, a member of the Dashboks software development
team. “The speed and demand that came with working for a start-up completely
took me aback. From day one, there was always a sense of innovation and
excitement.”

“When we met the Propel GPS team we encountered so many different specialists.
The people ranged from graphic designers to social media experts and software
engineers,” said Zoey Pu, the Youtube consultant in the Duke Practicum team.
“It was humbling to be treated as equals and receive feedback on our social
media marketing pitch. We got to witness their brainstorming process and pick
out which ideas they connected with the most so we could develop our strategy
to better suit their needs.”

“For me, working directly with management and other students was a really
amazing experience,” says Angelica, another Dasbhoks software developer. “So
often in our academic career we focus solely on exams and homework
assignments, but working for a start-up was a totally different experience.”

“Working with Propel GPS has shown us the importance of considering customer
needs and how the product fits into their personal lives,” said Vidya. “We
believe the mindset of an entrepreneur and engineer should comprise both
technological savvy and salesmanship in order to succeed.”

“We can’t wait to see the results of the social media campaigns and how our
consultation will help improve the Smartphone app experience,” said Zoey. “The
best part of it is that, unlike with most consulting projects, we get feedback
as we go along. That’s the real learning experience. It’s not about what you
deliver in the end but how you respond to current company needs.”

“You don’t often get the opportunity to collaborate with the key people of a
revenue-growth company,” said Renee. “We had the right to get creative; they
let us shine.”

* * *

## MEMP's Consulting Practicum Program: By the numbers

  * Launched in **2005** , the program has offered more than **60** practicums
    involving more than **300** MEMP students.
  * **More than 30** corporate partners have sponsored practicums.
  * **More than one-third** of MEMP students take part in a practicum.

Learn more about the MEMP Consulting Practicum Program

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

