

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEM Outsourcing Study cited in new edition of Thomas Friedman’s book The
World is Flat

August 27, 2006

The effect of engineering outsourcing on the global economy is a discussion of
keen interest in business, policy and academic circles. In the fall 2005 and
spring 2006 a team of Master of Engineering Management students, led by Ben
Rissing under the direction of MEM Executive in Residence, Vivek Wadhwa, and
Sociology Professor Gary Gereffi, challenged the faulty statistics that have
been used to compare undergraduate engineering graduation rates in the United
States, India, and China. Like-to-like data suggest that the United States
produces a very substantial number of four-year engineers, computer scientists
and information technology specialists, and remains a competitive source of
global engineering and technology labor. The key issue in engineering
education should be the quality and types of engineers produced in each
country, since these factors have the biggest impact on innovation and
entrepreneurship.

Thomas Friedman's _The World is Flat: Updated and Expanded_ references the
Duke MEM outsourcing study within the context of the current engineering
outsourcing debate. Over the past year research produced by the MEM
outsourcing team has been cited by _Business Week_ , _The Wall Street Journal_
, _NY Times_ , _US News and World Report_ , _USA Today_ , _ABC News_ , _The
Washington Post_ , _Science Magazine_ , _AP_ and a variety of other domestic
and international publications. Stay tuned for the next phase of the study
reporting corporate perspectives on the outsourcing debate!

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

