

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEMP Student Helps Entrepreneurship and Technology Ideas "Hatch" at Duke and
Beyond

November 15, 2008

When Ali Habib made the decision to leave his home town of Karachi, Pakistan
to come to Duke as a Master of Engineering Management student, he knew he was
embarking on a journey that would change him forever. What he didn't know, was
how much impact he would have on the Master of Engineering Management program,
the Pratt School of Engineering, Duke at large, and really, the whole world.

Ali is a Fulbright Scholar, so obviously he is brilliant. He also happens to
be dynamic, kind, technology-gifted, and creative. MEM professor Larry Boyd
recognized these qualities in Ali and asked him to redesign the Center for
Entrepreneurship and Research Commercialization website for Duke. Ali was
initially a bit nervous about the project because he would be designing on a
new platform, Drupal. His prior experience was with Java, but he rose to the
challenge, taught himself Drupal, and took the Center for Entrepreneurship and
Research Commercialization website from weak to wonderful in a matter of
months.

When Ali finished with the website, he was delighted to move on to another
great project; DU Hatch, an incubator where student ideas can become real
businesses in an educational setting. He says that one of the best things
about Hatch is that there is always some sort of social venture or charity
idea, it isn't just about technology. Ali's appreciation of technology
functioning alongside non-technological ventures is part of what makes him
such a great fit for the MEM program. He plans to bring the fundamentals of
Hatch back to Pakistan and to set up a similar project for students there.

Ali has a few other side projects that he will continue to work on this year.
He writes a weekly profile on a person who has an impact on the MEM program
and he also serves as a member of the MEM Internal Communications sector of
the MEM Program Development Committee. In his free time he likes to read,
write poetry, watch movies, and work out.

Ali attributes much of his success to growing up in Karachi, the financial and
business hub of Pakistan, and to his family. Ali's family is made up of stock
brokers, business people, doctors, and entrepreneurs. He said that there is
just something about the Habibs that makes them want to be their own boss. Ali
will likely follow in these footsteps when he returns to Pakistan next May to
pursue a career in technology management. He hopes to open his own company in
Karachi.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

