

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEMP Students Get Head Start on Career Development

October 3, 2006

Students in the Masters of Engineering Management Program (MEMP) are getting a
head start in their career development through a series of workshops led in
part by Lee Hecht Harrison (LHH), the world's leading career services company.

Before classes even started, the students were introduced to the program in an
intensive two-day orientation. The new career development program was
developed over several months by MEMP student and Program Development
Committee member Jon Reifschneider, in conjunction with MEM faculty and LHH.

"The program takes a project management approach to career development and job
searches—perfect for engineering students," said MEMP director Jeff Glass.

This year's 107 incoming and returning students – including citizens of India,
China, Singapore, Panama, Russia and several other countries – were required
to create or update their resumes and submit them for review prior to their
arrival at orientation. They also completed a self assessment to reflect on
personal career objectives as they relate to their individual identities and
values.

"The purpose of this phase is to establish your professional objective, which
is the end goal for your entire career search effort," students were told in
an introductory letter. "It is a concise statement describing what type of
work you are looking for. This statement will give direction to your search
and set the tone for your resume, cover letters, interviews and all other
communication you will have during this process."

The first day of orientation included an introduction to MEMP followed by
Myers Briggs personality testing and team-building exercises. Students also
had the opportunity to network with several MEMP alums and friends of the
program. On the following day, LHH representatives led the students through
sessions on "how to create an effective accomplishment-based resume and
communications strategy," job search strategies and the interview process.

Afternoon sessions offered advice to students on how to best leverage their
MEMP education with potential employers and a primer on Duke's career
resources available through the Duke Career Center. The day wrapped up with a
resume evaluation session, mock interviews, and a surprise visit from Indian
Ambassador Ronen Sen, who spoke about the importance of having a global
perspective.

Future career workshops under development will provide more in depth focus on
interviewing skills, networking and negotiating and evaluating job offers,
among other key topics. Students will also have the opportunity for one-on-one
coaching and counseling from LHH representatives.

An upcoming networking seminar and dinner will bring another 20 to 30 MEMP
alums and friends to Duke. A new mentoring program, which will pair MEMP
students with an alum or other industry affiliate, is in the planning stages,
Glass said.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

