

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEMP Recruiters Hit the Road

November 13, 2008

The Fall of 2008 presented a busy recruiting schedule for MEM administrators
and students. This year, not only did MEM focus on graduate school fairs, we
also held informal Information Sessions throughout the country to attract
students to our program. A highlight of these trips was the dedicated
recruitment effort by many of our current students.

September kicked off the fall recruiting schedule with a trip to Cornell and
Syracuse by Student Services Officer Bridget Fletcher while Brad Fox,
Executive Director, visited Purdue and Rose-Hulman. These trips were primarily
centered on Graduate School Fairs and attracted interested students from
across the campuses.

Alum Evan Kereiakes hosted a MEM table at the University of Chicago Graduate
School Fair in October while Kirsten Nicolas, Director of Career Services,
presented at Georgia Tech University and Brad Fox visited the University of
Maryland and the University of Virginia. Jeff Glass ventured to Virginia Tech
where he had great student response.

Student Lauren Knish established excellent contacts at her alma mater,
Vanderbilt, and she and Bridget Fletcher enjoyed high turnouts of students who
were very interested in MEM. Vanderbilt has an undergraduate Management of
Technology major which probably precipitated some of this interest. Bridget
and Lauren combined business with a chance to enjoy Nashville. They each
stayed in town over the weekend to catch up with old friends and to take in
the charms of the city.

Bridget continued her globe trotting with a trip the next week to the
University of Michigan, Michigan State University, and Kettering University.
Student Kasey Coates accompanied Bridget to add support and to enhance
interactions with her alma mater, Michigan. Although the cold air was a bit of
an adjustment from the mild North Carolina temperatures, the warm welcome was
just like our own southern hospitality. Perhaps the biggest surprise of the
fall recruiting season was the superior level of interest and engagement from
the students at Kettering. Approximately 35 or more students attended the
information session and more were interested who could not attend. This is a
school that MEM will definitely focus on in the future.

To round out the Fall, David Siet arranged a trip to Tulane in November. David
went above and beyond the call of duty by posting himself at a table in the
lobby of the Engineering Building for most of the day Thursday and Friday, in
addition to the Information Session he arranged. His efforts garnered heavy
interest, both from students attending the Information Session as well as walk
by traffic. Thanks David.

Fredrick Porter also established contacts at his alma mater, MIT, to arrange a
visit in mid-November. Fredrick will be presenting to the general body meeting
for the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE). Luckily, MITs NSBE and
Harvards NSBE are taking this opportunity to hold a joint meeting, so
Fredrick will have two captive audiences.

In addition to the fall recruiting trips, MEM has begun to focus on
identifying respected faculty who are natural student advisors. Through
dialogue and building relationships, we expect to develop another avenue of
continuous promotion by people who are working most closely with students.
Brad Fox has talked with Dr. Marc Eiteman at the University of Georgia and is
planning a visit with Dr. David Parrish of NCSU.

The MEM Fall Open House was held on November 6 and attracted both students new
to the MEM concept, as well as two students who have been admitted to the
program for Spring 2009. Administrators welcomed the attendance of MEM
students Lauren Knish, Kasey Coates, Noel Schexnayder, Shannon Connelly, and
Anirudh Venugopal. These MEMers provided prospective students with a student
viewpoint and established wonderful rapport with the attendees. Thank you all!

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

