

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEMP Student Gets Face Time with Warren Buffett

July 17, 2008

by Bridget Fletcher

When Pratik Shah, a Master of Engineering Management student from Aurangabad,
India joined the Duke Investment Club, he expected to meet other students with
a similar interest in investing and finance and to get some valuable
networking opportunities. He did not expect a lunch meeting with Warren
Buffett.

More than 150 students from Duke, the University of Tennessee, and the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology were extended an invitation to dine with
Warren Buffett in Omaha, Nebraska this past April. Buffett likes to meet with
the younger generation each year to get a sense of how they view the world of
investing. Shah, a lifelong Buffett idolizer and future investor, was lucky
enough to attend.

In February 2008, Buffetts net worth of $62 billion earned him the title of
richest man in the world. With that kind of distinction, Shah expected that
Buffett would be hard to approach, but was delighted to report that he was
very down to earth and seemed genuinely interested in all of the students
questions, though he was unwilling to offer direct tips for investing.

According to Shah, Buffett spoke very passionately about his commitment to
charity and discussed the fact that he will be leaving a substantial portion
of his fortune to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which corresponds
directly to his believe in higher education. Buffett sited Benjamin Graham,
his professor at Columbia Business School, as his mentor and the reason behind
his success. Shah said that hearing an endorsement for higher education from
the richest man in the world resonated well with all of the students.

Meeting Warren Buffett was one of the single greatest moments in my entire
life, said Shah. Before leaving for Omaha to meet Buffett, Shah told MEM
Faculty Director, Jeff Glass, This is a dream come true for me. I will be
meeting him as a student tomorrow and hope to meet him as an investor
someday.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

