

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEMP Students Place in Triangle Startup Weekend

February 10, 2014

Duke MEMP students Sachin Gupta and Harsh Ambekar were awarded 2nd and 3rd
place respectively as members of teams pitching business ideas at the Triangle
Startup Weekend in Chapel-Hill in November. The winning ideas, _Get Back_ and
_Moneyball++_ , were presented to a team of judges including MEM Adjunct
Professor Greg Hopper and other local entrepreneurs, industry experts, and law
firms at the culminating event of the weekend on November 15, 2013. Other MEM
connections contributed to the event as well: Adjunct Professor Kevin Wright
served as a mentor to several teams, and alumna Shruti Manek served on the
organizing committee.

_Get Back_ is an idea developed by Sachin to help consumers earn and redeem
coupons while they stand in line by completing a feedback survey for that
specific store. Businesses already try to engage customers with reward
programs and these customers, who love instant rewards, are often obsessively
checking their phones while waiting in line. The _Get Back_ app will enable
people to simply fill out a survey tailored to each business and then choose
an instant reward.

Harsh was selected to be part of a team developing _Moneyball++_ , an idea
generated by Darshan Singh, a PhD in Computer Science from the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. His idea utilizes a similar concept to
Moneyball, substituting cricket for baseball. By performing statistical
analysis, _Moneyball++_ seeks to predict the winning chances of a team, how a
certain player will play during an event, what fielding position will result
in the best outcome, and so on.

Sachin pitched his idea in the first round on Friday evening and was selected
to then form a team of students from other universities and professionals in
the area to continue working on the idea. Harsh was chosen to be a
contributing member of the _Moneyball++_ team after it was selected to proceed
past the first round. For the next 54 hours, they continued brainstorming,
developing a business plan, and building a basic prototype which led to their
successful finish. By placing in the top teams, they were awarded access to 10
free services, including free consulting services from a consulting firm, a
free web domain, and free access to a law firm for company filing to further
their ideas.

Congratulations, Sachin and Harsh! To learn more about the start-up weekend,
please visit http://communities.techstars.com/usa/triangle/startup-weekend/.

_We live in a time where anything is possible and anything can be built - as
long as we can bring together the right people around the right ideas. Startup
Weekend is a global initiative that brings together passionate individuals
with unique skill sets and experiences, then challenges them to turn their
ideas into reality over the course of a weekend._

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

