

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEMP Prep Launches Career in Automotive Industry for Gonce

March 15, 2004 | By David King

By David King

What one word best sums up the results of Andrew Gonce's MEM degree?
_Acceleration._ Not a bad choice for an engineer who spends much of his time
working to improve the Ford Mustang.

"What I learned in earning my MEM degree helped to accelerate the start of my
career," Gonce said, and his achievements certainly support his statement.
After completing the MEM degree at Duke, Gonce had several job offers from
which to choose, but Ford rose to the top. The excitement of moving to a place
where he had never been and working for a large, established consumer products
company such as Ford, proved to be two main deciding factors.

Gonce entered the Ford College Graduate Program in 2000 for two years of
rotating assignments. By selecting a variety of six-month positions, he gained
vital insight into the many aspects of such a large company that made him an
even more well rounded engineer. The MEM program prepared him to take
assignments as diverse as Mustang Program Management and Vehicle
Personalization Finance. Success in these varied disciplines allowed him to
choose where to go next at Ford Motor Company.

In the late nineties, Ford implemented the Six Sigma program in an effort to
leverage engineering skills to attack specific quality and waste problems in
assembly plants, labs, and offices. This is what Gonce chose to do, and in the
fall of 2002, he began his training as a North American Core Engineering Black
Belt. Having always wanted to pick up new skills and to learn how to make
things work, Gonce enjoyed being able to combine all his interests through Six
Sigma. Six Sigma uses a rigorous statistical base to focus efforts on the root
cause of problems and to prevent any recurrences. Using his training, Gonce
was able to save over one million dollars and correct three significant
quality issues at two North American Assembly plants. One particular project
gave Gonce an opportunity to really 'get his feet wet,' working in Louisville
Assembly Plant's Paint Department and inside the paint spray booths.

"Without the experience in an assembly plant, I would never have truly
understood how the company runs its business and how money is made," Gonce
remarked, reflecting on his Six Sigma experiences.

Though one might never guess it, considering his success at Ford, Gonce was
not always so sure where his engineering degree would take him. As a Duke
undergraduate in mechanical engineering, he made the usual treks to the career
fairs his senior year. In three previous summers, he had worked as an
engineering intern at Lockheed Martin, but he did not know if this what he
really wanted to do. He was tempted to follow other friends into the world of
consulting, but felt instead that he would gain more by pursuing Duke's Master
of Engineering Management degree. Gonce's expectations of his one-year MEM
degree probably resonate with many young college graduates.

"I wanted an opportunity to make myself more attractive to employers, while
figuring out what I really want to do, and rounding out' my engineering
education." Gonce knew he did not want to be a "technical, PhD type of
engineer" because he was really drawn to understanding the process of how a
whole business works. For him, the MEM degree seemed the perfect fit, and so
Gonce entered Duke's MEM program in the class of 2000.

As he had hoped when entering the program, Gonce found that the MEM degree
truly helped round out his engineering education. While, as an undergraduate,
Gonce did not have either the time or opportunity to step outside his focus in
mechanical engineering, the MEM degree allowed him to network and learn from
engineers from all different backgrounds. In addition, by attending technology
fairs and developing projects, Gonce was able to apply what he learned in the
classroom.

"In undergrad you mostly get theory. There's often not enough time for
application. However, in the real world, perfect lab conditions don't really
ever happen," Gonce says lightheartedly.

Even in non-laboratory situations, MEM classes continued to provide the "real
world" perspective often lacking from traditional engineering instruction.
Gonce reflected, "My best class was Product Liability and Management because I
saw so clearly how the engineering discipline fit with the real world. You
learn that, obviously, some things matter more than others. Now [at Ford],
when I am in a testing group and something breaks on a car, there are
consequences."

Gonce also highlighted his introductory Management class, "because it pulled
all the disciplines together." Gonce remarked, "you can not afford to
engineer, working by yourself and reading books to figure a project out. That
is not how companies work. The case studies we used in class are comparable to
my Six Sigma teams with manufacturing, engineering, and finance all involved.
Whether you like it or not, bringing people together and communicating with
them is how the most important work is done."

In addition to receiving the benefits he had expected from the MEM degree,
Gonce remarked that some of the greatest benefits of the degree were things he
could not have expected.

"One of the greatest surprises was the students," Gonce said. New viewpoints
from students with different perspectives were key to much of what Gonce took
with him. "These students come from different schools, different parts of the
country, different internships, and some come from having already worked for
several years in the world of engineering. When you are working on a project
team, these different perspectives increase the likelihood of being able to
see if a particular plan would actually work."

Gonce gives credit to his MEM degree for teaching him where he could take
control. Gonce said, "Knowing your skills allows you to put yourself in a
position to succeed." Again, the word _acceleration_ fit Gonce perfectly. Time
and time again, Gonce has noticed that his MEM degree has pushed him a step
ahead.

"When given a project, you might be just one week ahead of others on the
learning curve," Gonce said. For instance, when Gonce was given the task of
coming up with a pricing strategy for after-market navigation systems, nobody
had to walk him through the process, and he ended up finishing two weeks ahead
of schedule. "[The core of the project] was understanding price competition
and position statements," Gonce said, "just like case studies we did in class.
I was able to understand how it fits together. Being ahead of the learning
curve by a week may not seem like much, but your performance review will
reflect it. You can deliver quicker [results], and that matters."

Most importantly, the MEM degree simply gave Gonce the necessary skills to
communicate with all areas of the company. "Relating to people has been so
important in my job," Gonce said, "Some of these communication skills came
straight from my Management class." Understanding how business works has
benefited him immensely. "No matter whether your company is big or small,
every time you start with a business plan. No matter the project, you have to
back it up with numbers," Gonce said, adding, "You never can overlook the
basic stuff." With his experience in the finance department, Gonce has been
able to work with the financial advisors and project auditors. He uses what he
learned from marketing when developing special projects.

Looking back, Gonce can now offer some advice to those enrolled in or
considering the MEM program. Remember that even with your MEM degree, it takes
time to move up through a company. Temper your excitement with realism. Do not
forget the intangible skills you gain while learning from others' experiences
and from your communications with those from different environments. Chances
are these skills will be very helpful.

For those considering the MEM, Gonce recommends it wholeheartedly. "The MEM
offers you a lot of exposure quickly. It gives you what you need to know that
lets you progress much quicker." Though finding it a natural transition from
his undergraduate degree, Gonce gained insight he would never have predicted.
His MEM degree has put Gonce on the fast track, and that is a place where he
feels more than comfortable. As for Gonce's next step, he was recently
accepted into the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia,
where he hopes to study entrepreneurship.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

