

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEMP Student Makes the World Smaller, One Project at a Time

January 9, 2009

Keddy Chandran is no stranger to travel. As a child he moved several times to
various locations throughout the US and Canada, and in his adult life has
traveled to just about any part of the globe you can think of. In fact, he was
traveling across Europe last summer when his Blackberry alerted him to an
email announcing the Stanford Technology Venture Programs Fellowship for the
Roundtable on Entrepreneurship Education.

The challenge caught his eye for a number of reasons. First of all it was at
Stanford, secondly the subject matter was food, and most importantly it
involved entrepreneurship, one of his newly discovered passions. Keddy says he
caught the entrepreneurship bug, from Dr. Larry Boyd, who taught t one of his
MEM electives. Keddy spent the remainder of his European train rides
completing the application for the challenge on his Blackberry.

Keddy was accepted into the program and began working with his team
immediately via email. The team had to complete many challenges before
stepping foot on the Stanford campus. One of the projects involved creating a
meal using the teams collective skills, strengths, and experiences. The team
decided to make a Jailbirds Last Meal, which included gazpacho topped with
a key carved out of ice and crème brûlée, complete with a blow torch. Keddy
said that by the time the team met at Stanford, they felt like they already
knew each other.

During their time at Stanford, Keddy's team tackled a problem that he has
faced several times during his travels; getting a good restaurant
recommendation in a foreign place. Keddy said that he spent lots of time
eating at Subway and Papa John's when he was in China, until he met up with a
friend who lived there and showed him where to go and what to order. Although
we can't all have a personal food guide wherever we go, the team did come up
with a pretty great plan. The details of the solution that the team devised
are top secret, but there is no doubt that their ideas will change the way
that many of us eat while traveling.

Outside of the Stanford Technology Venture Programs Fellowship for the
Roundtable on Entrepreneurship Education Keddy has done some other amazing
things during his time in the MEM program. He, along with a team of students
from across the university, has started a non-profit called Spinefuse. The
company seeks to obtain unused inventory from large medical supply companies,
like Johnson & Johnson or Medtronic, and to bring them to hospitals in
developing countries. A trained surgeon then works with the local surgeons to
teach them how to use the equipment in as little as four sessions. The team
really believes in this cause because trauma is devastating and often fatal in
countries that are not properly equipped to cope with it. Spinefuse has sought
funding from the Engineering Alumni Council and hopes to compete in the Duke
Start-Up Challenge and the Global Social Ventures Competition.

Keddy's global efforts don't stop there. Shortly after graduation, he plans to
incorporate a venture group which will fund equal parts to a not-for-profit
group as well as a for-profit group, with the for-profit group also
contributing to the non-profit. He hopes that this symbiotic model will
inspire people to give and to help them realize that giving doesn't have to be
hard. When we asked Keddy what inspired him to put this venture together, he
replied "If people just do it, they will find out that it is easy and
rewarding. They just have to take that first step. The biggest problem that we
face in this world is greed. People want to get a good return instead of doing
good in the world. I believe that earning a good return and doing good aren't
mutually exclusive."

Now that he has graduated, Keddy is trying to decide where to go from here.
His ideas range from moving to China to learn Mandarin to working for Project
Better Place, a company that is working to create an infrastructure for
electric cars. He is also considering going into Clean Technology, after
listening to author Thomas Friedman speak earlier this term. First things
first though, his dad has planned an ice driving vacation in Sweden where the
two Chandran men will spend three days driving various Mercedes vehicles on a
specially "iced" track. The trip will be the perfect graduation present for
this globetrotting engineer.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

