

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Message from Duke Engineering Master's Programs Leadership on Federal
Immigration Restrictions

January 31, 2017

Along with many others across our nation and world, we are deeply concerned
about the new restrictions on immigration to the U.S.

Dear Duke University Master's Community,

Along with many others across our nation and world, we are deeply concerned
about the new restrictions on immigration to the U.S. announced by President
Trump on Friday, and about those in our community and beyond affected by them.

As you know, Duke University President Richard Brodhead and Provost Sally
Kornbluth recently shared a message to the Duke community regarding the
restrictions. We encourage you to review their memo posted on the Duke Today
website. In addition, an earlier message from President Brodhead on
immigration issues can be found here.

Please be assured that we in the Master's Programs strongly support the
activities by the broader university community in response to these new
restrictions, and wish to reiterate our concern about the well-being of
students, faculty and staff who may be impacted by the new policies.

We know many questions surround this fast-changing situation, and although we
are unable to advise on individual circumstances, our doors are open to anyone
who wishes to discuss their concerns. We also encourage faculty, staff and
students to reach out to the university support services noted in the earlier
Duke memo, including Duke Reach, Duke Visa Services and the International
House.

Although, as President Brodhead stated, these new restrictions are disturbing,
we are encouraged by the response of the many groups across the higher
education and tech communities that are working to strongly voice their
concerns to policymakers and the global community.

We have a strong, supportive, and inclusive community in Duke’s Master's
Programs and we do not intend that to change. Thank you for your interest and
support in helping us provide an environment that supports the best possible
education for all of our students, regardless of background.

Brad Fox, Associate Dean for Master's Programs

Jeff Glass, Faculty Director, Master of Engineering Management Program

La Tondra Murray, Director, Professional Masters Programs

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

