

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# My UNique Internship

October 2, 2008

Written by Pranay Jinna, a Duke MEM student from Hyderabad, India.

I spent an incredible two months interning at the United Nations headquarters
in New York. My summer began with an orientation in the hallowed chambers of
the Trusteeship council which is on the same floor as the Security Council and
the General Assembly. After my orientation, we met our supervisors where we
were given our tasks.

My internship was in the Aviation Transport Section (ATS). The main task of
ATS was dealing with the short and long term leasing of aircraft for the
different missions across the world. I was involved in the development of an
Enterprise Budget Application for ATS and I also assisted in preparing the
performance report for ATS.

Meeting and working with different interns and staff members from all over the
world has given me a better understanding and appreciation of other cultures.
The discussions on diverse topics like world politics, foreign policies,
languages, Euro cup, etc with other interns were highly intellectual and
stimulating.

Getting a firsthand insight into the power and politics of the world and the
subtle diplomacy practiced along with the background for complex negotiations
was a great experience. Some of what I learned was unbelievable. For example;
the UNs budget is smaller than that of the city of New York and the UN has
the second largest number of troops deployed across the world after the US
army. Even the diversity and the talent among the UN diplomats, staff and
interns is staggering. A group of 20 people would probably turn out to be from
15 different nationalities and one of the astonishing things for me was the
sheer number of different languages that people spoke. Although English has
largely replaced French as the language for diplomacy, there were still many
diplomats and staff members who could converse fluently with each other in
more than one language.

As interns, we could attend any of the open conferences and there were
parallel conferences on various topics apart from sessions in the General
Assembly, Security Council and Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). High
level meetings on genocide, poverty, environmental sustainability and
combating HIV/AIDS were just some of the conferences that I attended. I also
attended the world leadership and diversity summit was also held at the UN
while I was there. A huge chunk of the UNs budget is spent on translation.
Any speech during major conferences was simultaneously translated into the six
official languages.

We interns also organized visits to the missions of various countries. The
Cuban, American, European Union and Chinese missions were the most popular.
The contrast between the American and the Cuban views was striking (lightly
called as the American vs. Cuban propaganda). I tried to diversify as much as
possible and also visited the Lebanon, Ghana, Egypt, Nepal, Spain, Korean and
the Dutch missions. The Lebanese diplomat gave an extremely insightful
analysis on the history of the Middle East conflict while the Lisbon treaty
and the Irish referendum were touched upon at the EU mission.

Nearing the end of our internship we had a group photo with the Secretary
General Mr. Ban Ki-Moon and I also managed to get a handshake. His words still
resonate where he urged us to work for a non-profit firm for at least some
time in our careers and not to forget what we learned at the UN: Be an
idealist without illusions

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

