

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# New Course Introduces Undergrad Engineers to Business

May 1, 2006

A course now being offered for the first time at Duke's Pratt School of
Engineering gives engineering undergraduates an introduction to business. The
pilot course, **EGR 165.03: Introduction to Business in Technology-Based
Companies** , aims to provide a basic understanding of business concepts in
preparation for future careers in industry.

"In today's high-tech environment, engineers are expected to be conversant in,
and able to function across, multiple disciplines," said director of the
Master of Engineering Management Program (MEMP), Jeff Glass, who is teaching
the new course along with Professor Barry Myers, senior associate dean for
industrial partnerships and research commercialization. Myers is also director
of the Duke Center for Entrepreneurship and Research Commercialization.

"Engineers' design and project decisions are influenced by a multitude of
external factors that result from financial, management, marketing and
intellectual property concerns," Glass added. "The course aims to introduce
students to each of these key business concepts."

"The course takes advantage of an interdisciplinary group of Duke experts to
essentially pack as much of the one-year MEMP program as possible into a
single course," he said. Contributors to the course include Martha Reeves,
visiting professor of marketing and management studies; entrepreneur-in-
residence Daniel Egger; Kevin Lyn, Engineering Alumni Council member and
intellectual property expert; and Sam Veraldi, visiting professor of
sociology.

The 25 students currently enrolled in the course are applying their new
knowledge by working in teams to develop a business or product plan. They must
develop a two-minute "elevator pitch" and a full presentation as if selling
their idea to potential investors. Each undergraduate team is aided by a MEMP
graduate student mentor.

The first group of students is developing business plans for products
including E-Receipts, an online database that stores receipt information to
accurately keep track of expenses; EverSoothe Pack, a device that senses hot
or cold flashes and then provides heating or cooling to make the wearer more
comfortable; and LPS, a system that wirelessly tracks luggage as it travels on
airplanes and through airports, to eradicate the risk of losing passengers'
bags, among others.

Students are also keeping "What's not working" idea logbooks throughout the
course as a way of identifying opportunities for innovation. The concept was
inspired by a lecture given by Duke alumus and innovator Robert Fischell,
Glass said.

"We want students to get comfortable thinking on an ongoing basis about
opportunities for innovation," Myers said. "It's not something reserved for
research labs, but rather it involves the regular recognition of everyday
problems that could be made better."

"Students in the course have already commented that they feel much more
prepared for job interviews," Glass noted. He expects the new class will
become an annual offering, although it will first have to go through the
standard approval processes.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

