

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Nidhi Pathak: Improving Robotic Consumer Products

January 31, 2023

The December 2022 master's graduate interned with NinjaShark

**Hometown:** Pune, India  
 **Graduation:** December 2022

> “The programs and connections that Duke offers are incredible and
> unmatchable when it comes to any other school.”
>
> **Nidhi Pathak** | Master of Engineering Management

What has been your best experience at the Pratt School of Engineering?

I took 542: Competitive Strategy in Technology-Related Organizations from Tony
O’Driscoll. In that course, we split up into teams for a management
simulation. My team and I simulated being CEO, CFO and CTO. We worked with
other teams to reach the goals set by the facilitators. I really enjoyed the
process because it let us be creative. It was _super_ fast-paced, and we had
to plan our moves in advance. The simulation’s speed had us on our feet at
every moment, always having to think about the next step!

What was your favorite course?

My favorite course was 576: Design Thinking and Innovation taught by Kathie
Amato. It was my favorite because it really changed the way I think. Moreover,
I had the opportunity to work on a design challenge and apply the concepts
learned in class. I even got the opportunity to attend her class twice, the
second time as a teaching assistant!

Where did you do your internship?

I worked as a product manager at SharkNinja over the summer in Boston. They
build smart home products, and I was on their robotics team. I worked on
enhancing the minimum viable product (MVP) approach, and chalked out a product
vision using consumer insights. I supported the hardware and software sides
and was able to work on two product development cycles. My favorite part of
the internship was analyzing gaps in the user onboarding flow and strategizing
improvements.

What are your career aspirations?

Apart from my master’s degree, I worked toward Duke's Graduate & Professional
Certificate in Innovation & Entrepreneurship. This really helped me understand
my interests better and helped shape my interests and goals going forward.
After Duke, I realized I would like to work as a product manager in a tech
company. In the future, I hope to run a company that has a societal impact on
the world!

What advice would you give to students considering Duke Engineering?

Leverage your Duke network to learn more about opportunities you are
interested in, and go out of your way to meet students outside your program to
understand and learn how they do things! The programs and connections that
Duke offers are incredible and unmatchable when it comes to any other school.
You can always find someone to help you, whether a faculty member or a
student, when in need.

The Master of Engineering Management is a degree program in Duke Engineering's
Institute for Enterprise Engineering. To explore all our education programs,
visit ene.duke.edu »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

