

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Path to Success

November 14, 2011

_By Chibulu Luo (MEMP ’11)_

Huyen Tran, MEMP '09 graduate and Co-Founder of women's fashion line,
AmareSinh, is using her MEM degree in an interesting and unexpected way.
Originally from Vietnam, Tran immigrated to the US when she was little and
grew up in Philadelphia. Having an interest in advanced technology research,
Tran received her Bachelor’s degree in Chemistry from Temple University.

"I used to work in a laser lab at Temple doing research on molecular detection
and selective segmentation of molecules using lasers," she recalls, "and while
I am still very interested in science, I am more of a business person nowadays
and can't see myself working in a lab."

Throughout her career, Tran has pursued a number of entrepreneurial ventures.
After graduating from Temple, she returned to Vietnam with the hope of
returning to her ethnic roots, and founded her own non-profit organization,
the Hue Happy Project.

“We teach children who are not in school and forced to work by their parents
how to make handicrafts such as necklaces, bracelets, and earrings, instead of
working on the streets where they are exposed to all kinds of danger. Profits
then go into schooling and materials for school,” she says. When Tran later
returned to the US, she worked with a company that developed technology for
clinical trial management.

But because she was always looking for new opportunities to develop
professionally, Tran enrolled in the MEM Program in May 2008. “I saw the
program as a way for me to gain knowledge on a more holistic scale and advance
my thinking” she says. “I have so many great memories of Duke, but Camp Out
was probably my best - I did not make it past the first night!” she laughs.

After graduating from Duke, Tran’s brother, who studied Fashion Design at the
Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) in New York, approached her with an idea
to start a women’s clothing line.

“For a long time my brother was passionate about women’s wear and when I
graduated, he asked me to help him start AmareSinh - a women's ready-to-wear
line for middle- and high-end markets,” she recalls. “I was looking for jobs
at the time, and was thrilled about the opportunity to use my knowledge of
intellectual property, finance, and project management in the fashion
industry,” she says, “so I said yes!”

Coined from two words, "Amare" which means love in Italian and "Sinh" which
means birth in Vietnamese, the name “AmareSinh” commemorates through clothing,
the love, appreciation and beauty of life. Tran admits that given her
knowledge of entrepreneurship and business learned at Duke, the bold move to
start AmareSinh was less frightening.

“Having taken courses in Decision Models, Intellectual Property and Business
Case Writing,” she says, “I felt I could really bring to the table business
knowledge that would complement the creative ideas my brother had for the
company”. She continues, “Even as a Duke alumnus, I still have easy access to
and great support from other alumni around the globe. I also meet other
entrepreneurs during DukeGEN events that I have co-hosted in several cities.”

While Tran’s career is testament to the diversity of professional options
available to MEM students after graduation, she reflects that the path to
starting one’s own company is far from easy.

“Do not jump into it without mentorship, research, cost-benefit or risk
analysis” she says, “this in itself might take a year or two.” “Then,” she
continues, “you just have to do it.”

“You also need to focus on the project 100% because few start-up ventures are
successful if implemented on a part-time basis,” she says. “Personally, I was
very lucky to have my brother be one of the few designers to have made it in
the industry. But also believing in what we do and gathering a team of strong
supporters has moved mountains for us.”

AmareSinh continues to grow as a company and has released four different
collections, some of them also with accessories. More information can be found
on all major social networks and at AmareSinh.com.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

