

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# The Pertinence of MEMP in an Internship at the White House

October 6, 2010

I had the opportunity to interview Evan (MEMP Class of 2007) regarding his
internship with the National Economic Council, where he worked in the
Eisenhower Executive Office Building next‐door to the White House. Evan was
one of about 120 interns working in the White House for various groups over
the summer. Evan served under the Special Assistant to the President for
Financial Markets and the Special Assistant to the President for Economic
Policy (Housing & Technology policy). The National Economic Council is
responsible for formulating and implementing the President's economic agenda
and works with a variety of executive agencies, market participants and
members of congress to address the most pressing issues in each sector of the
economy. While discussing his internship, Evan noted the relevance of the
skills he developed in the Master of Engineering Management program in the
workplace.

Evan’s internship was an enriching learning experience. As he puts it, “Each
day was different because there were a broad array of areas in which an intern
could contribute to the body of work produced by the National Economic
Council. I worked on financial markets, housing, and technology issues, so
this involved a lot of economic research to make sure that we put the best
plan in place to solve the major issues that arose in these three sectors of
the economy.” One particular facet of the internship that surprised him was
the amount of responsibility given to interns. “The interns, many of whom have
attended graduate school, are expected to make significant contributions
because, in general, there are only a few staff members who cover each sector
of the economy.”

One point that really stood out to me while talking to Evan was his emphasis
on something that the MEMP consistently teaches – the value of networking.
With such frequent interaction with representatives from the industry during
Career Fairs, TechConnect or after our Friday evening seminars, the value of
establishing a contact with working professionals is immeasurable. Networking
is not limited to industry professionals alone, there is immense value in
building a good connection with faculty advisors and one’s peers.

The perfect example of this is the way Evan learned about the type of economic
work conducted in the White House: “During the summer and fall of 2009, I
began working as a research assistant for one of my professors who was a
former member of the Council of Economic Advisors. My original impression of
Washington DC was that it was a political town and there were not as many
economic opportunities available, but my professor emphasized the important
contributions that both the Council of Economic Advisors and the National
Economic Council make to help the President formulate and implement his
economic policies.”

There is a worthwhile lesson that all students should learn from this example
– the need to actually reach out to one’s advisor and to discuss future plans.
Unfortunately, this wonderful resource is something that a lot of students do
not take advantage of. One needs to make the most of every opening and be
prepared to go the extra mile to find something they are truly passionate
about like Evan did.

According to Evan, another vital skill required for succeeding in the
workplace is to achieve proper balance, which was especially important in the
White House. “Working in the White House required that you balance between an
intense focus on the near‐term priorities and the need to manage the
longer‐term strategic aspects of implementing policies that can have a very
positive impact on millions of Americans.”

When asked about the tradeoffs involved while making decisions on issues that
could have strong proponents on opposite sides, he stated: “I tend to leave
the politics of any given issue to the pundits or to the elected politicians
themselves. My belief is that, as long as there is a fact‐based justification
for a particular action, then I am less concerned about the politics
surrounding a particular decision. It is sometimes the case where reasonable
minds can arrive at different conclusions based on the same facts, which is
why our democratic system is designed to balance these competing views.”

Another attribute that Evan stressed is the importance of teamwork. In this
fast paced world, the significance of being a team player and collaborating
with others cannot be emphasized enough. “The Duke MEM program taught me how
to solve economic problems in a collaborative environment. This skill is
necessary to succeed in the real world, but it is seldom taught in
undergraduate engineering programs, even in the context of innovation – which
is one of the priorities of the current administration.”

As the popular saying goes, “If everyone is moving forward together, then
success takes care of itself.” It was remarkable to see how this quote was
relevant in Evan’s tenure at the White House – “I was pleasantly surprised by
how the National Economic Council is so lean and efficient. It is a small
group of talented individuals that make the National Economic Council run and
the collective volume of output generated by this group is what I was most
impressed by.” A strong team also boosts individual performance and helps
drive results – something Evan corroborates as he reflects on his own
experience: “The fact that I had an opportunity to work on substantive issues
with some of the smartest people in the country made it easy to maintain the
high‐level of concentration and effort necessary to complete my slate of
challenging assignments.” This is a valuable skill that all MEMP students need
to hone in order to set themselves apart from everyone else.

It was really interesting to talk to Evan and gain an insight into some of the
work that goes on in the White House. Evan thoroughly enjoyed his experience
as is evident from what he said when asked to sum up his internship in a
nutshell, “My experience with the National Economic Council was by far the
most rewarding opportunity thus far in my career. Working within the Executive
Office of the President was unique in the respect that we had the opportunity
to have a positive impact the lives of millions of people with a single,
carefully considered, decision.” What was also noteworthy was how relevant our
MEMP education is in the real world. “Duke’s core economics training, focus on
case‐based coursework, and efforts to bring in executives from different
industries for seminars and workshops gives the MEMP students an enormous
advantage over the competition.”

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

