

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Pratt Reaches Out to Venture Capitalists

June 1, 2004

Leaders of the Duke Bioengineering Initiative met with venture capitalists and
leaders of technology based companies in California's Silicon Valley following
graduation to outline some of the innovative bioengineering research underway
at Pratt and School of Medicine.

A symposium in Menlo Park May 11 discussed some of the most promising cross-
school collaborations in the Duke Bioengineering Partnership. There were five
presentations at the half-day event.

Laura Niklason, MD, PhD (biomedical engineering and anesthesiology), discussed
engineering the replacement of arteries for humans. Eric Peterson, M.D.
(cardiology), talked about the potential of adult stem cells in cardiovascular
disease. Lori Setton, PhD (BME), discussed emerging technologies in cartilage
and disc repair. Craig Henriquez, PhD (BME), discussed his partnership with
Miguel Nicolelis, MD (neuroengineering), in engineering the brain-machine
interface. Barton Haynes, MD (director of the Human Vaccine Institute), and
Robert Clark, PhD (mechanical engineering and materials science), talked about
infectious diseases and human vaccines.

The purpose of the Duke Bioengineering Initiative is to capitalize on
collaborations between the Pratt School of Engineering and the School of
Medicine to build teams of sientists, engineers and clinicians focused on
improving human health.

The symposium was made possible by the support and guidance of Brook Byers,
Bill Younger, Steve Sullivan and Alan Kaganov. Byers is a Pratt parent and a
partner in Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield and Byers, in whose offices the
symposium was held. Younger also is a Pratt parent as well as member of the
school's Board of Visitors and managing director of Sutter Hill Ventures in
Palo Alto. Sullivan, who is with Skyline Ventures in Palo Alto, also is a
Pratt parent, a Duke alumus and member of the Board of Visitors. Kaganov is a
Pratt graduate, Board of Visitors member and a partner in U.S. Venture
Partners in Menlo Park.

Following the May 11 event, Pratt Dean Kristina Johnson spoke as a member of a
panel of engineering school deans at the National Venture Capital Association
meeting in San Francisco. She told the leaders of venture capital firms and
organizations who invest in emerging companies about Pratt and its strategic
research initiatives. Also on the panel were Dean Jim Plummer of Stanford and
Dean Tom Magnanti of MIT.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

