

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Pratt Offers to Enroll Ten Engineering Management Graduate Students
Displaced by Katrina

September 7, 2005

Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering will accommodate up to 10
graduate students studying for Master of Engineering Management and related
degrees who have been displaced by Hurricane Katrina and wish to continue
coursework while their home institutions are closed.

## Eligibility and Enrollment

Incoming students must be enrolled and in good academic standing at their home
institution for the Fall semester (or equivalent quarter) of 2005 and should
meet Duke admission requirements. Students who are eligible will enroll at
Duke as visiting non-degree students for the Fall 2005 semester. Credit for
courses taken at Duke will be determined by the home institution. Students are
expected to return to their home campuses if they have reopened by the
beginning of the Spring 2006 semester.

## Tuition and Health Coverage

If students are paying tuition at their home institutions, Duke University's
Pratt School of Engineering will not charge tuition or registration fees for
courses taken during their stay at Duke. We will also waive application fees.
The students will be responsible for all living expenses and must provide
documentation of coverage under existing health insurance during the period of
time they spend at Duke. Students will be required to pay Duke's health fee
for the semester in which they are enrolled at Duke, but all other fees
normally required of Duke graduate students will be waived.

## Application Process

Interested students are asked to fill out a brief application form. Please
contact Ms. Gail Abell, gail.abell@duke.edu or 919.660.5455, or Professor
Jeffrey Glass, jeff.glass@duke.edu or 919.660.5431 with any questions. We ask
you to make every effort to undertake the abbreviated application process and
come to the Duke campus as quickly as possible and plan to be in classes no
later than September 12, 2005 (and earlier if at all possible) so that you may
be integrated into the courses that are already underway.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

