

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Pratt Alums Took Fast Track to NASCAR

November 1, 2006

College put Pratt mechanical engineering alumni Ben Atkins ('02) and Andy Hogg
('03) on the fast track to an engineering career with NASCAR. They are now two
of seven engineers working for MB2 Motorsports, a NASCAR team based outside of
Charlotte.

Atkins, from Abington, Va., and Hogg, from York, PA, first met through Duke
University Motorsports, a student group that designs and builds open wheel,
single seat racecars to compete in the Formula SAE competition.

That hands-on experience gave them an early opportunity to apply engineering
concepts learned in the classroom and sparked their desire to pursue careers
in cars in general and racing in particular, they said. Their participation
also offered them the opportunity to take on a leadership role: both
ultimately served as president of the group.

"I can't say enough about the SAE team," Atkins said. "It was preparation for
where I am now. It was through the Duke team that I developed critical
relationships, got hands-on experience with cars, sponsorship. It was
invaluable. I couldn't put a price on it."

"Without Duke Motorsports, there is no way I'd be here today," agreed Hogg,
who is also a graduate of the Pratt School's Master of Engineering Management
Program (MEMP).

For Atkins, cars and racing were always an attraction. Still, early in his
college career, he remained uncertain about the direction his future as an
engineer would take. Atkins said it was former assistant director of
development Rick Owen who first opened his eyes to the potential for a career
in the racing industry. As president of Duke Motorsports, Atkins had
interacted with Owen in getting support for the Motorsports team from the
Alumni Fund.

After graduation, Atkins did whatever he could to get the additional work
experience he needed to land a job with a "cup team." He spent two years
working for smaller development leagues, to pick up the necessary skills and
make connections with people in the industry.

He ultimately met someone who taught him the software used by data acquisition
engineers to test and optimize cars prior to each race. When a data
acquisitions job opened up at MB2, that experience paid off, allowing Atkins
to jump right in.

"NASCAR doesn't allow computers on race weekends," Atkins said. "We do
practice tests in advance to measure the engine parameters and instrument the
cars. We analyze the data and give feedback to the crew chief to help in
decision making about suspension or other changes to make the car go faster."

Each race track is so different that the specifications that are best for one
track have little to no application to another, he said.

In Hogg's case, his interest in the automobile industry first led him to a job
at General Motors in Detroit where he worked for two years as an engineer
designing chassis. When he heard there was an opening for an aerodynamics
engineer at MB2, however, it was an opportunity he couldn't resist.

Hogg's job at MB2 entails tweaking the shape of the race cars' bodies, making
small but significant improvements while remaining within the very strict
requirements dictated by NASCAR.

"They give you a list of rules that the shape has to match," Hogg said. "My
job is to optimize the gray area. It's a little here, a little there, but it
adds up."

The primary aim in making a faster car is to find ways of increasing the
downward force, he explained. When cars become airborne, the drag slows them.

"Our goal is to find that extra 40 pounds of down force," Hogg said. "The
driver might not notice, but we know it's faster."

Because MB2 is a smaller NASCAR team, Hogg and Atkins also get the opportunity
to do "a little bit of everything," they added. Atkins might help out with
aerodynamic tests in the wind tunnel, for example. They also work on building
new cars and keeping the dozen or so cars in MB2's shop in good working order.

"The work is a perfect mix," Hogg said. "At GM, I spent a lot of time in front
of a computer.

"Here, I do spend time on the computer, but I'm also turning wrenches on race
cars – getting my hands dirty. It doesn't get boring. I show up at work each
day and it could be anything. I get a chance to apply my education everyday."

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

