

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Puja Majety: Developing Web Products to Support K-12 Education

January 31, 2023

The December 2022 master's graduate interned with PowerSchool

**Hometown:** Hyderabad, India  
 **Graduation:** December 2022

> **“** Duke is an amazing place to be. The courses are revealing, and you
> learn a lot that you will retain for life.”
>
> **Puja Majety |** Master of Engineering Management

What have been your best experiences at Duke and the Pratt School of
Engineering?

It is definitely the professors, the coursework and the facilities. The
professors are the reason I go to class, and the campus and facilities at Duke
are unparalleled. Other great things are the events and activities that
students can host, enhancing our skills further.

What was your favorite course?

My favorite course was 514: Negotiations and Consultative Selling in
Technology. The course took me by surprise. Where I expected to learn how to
become street smart, it taught me to be ethical, deal with the “right-versus-
right” situations, understand my partner's interests and creatively “make the
pie bigger.” This was done through practicing negotiations in class and during
a "one red paperclip” trading exercise.

Where did you do your internship?

I interned over the summer at PowerSchool as a product line intern. I learned
a lot about K-12 education and the enrollment process in the United States.
More importantly, I interacted with schools and school districts to formulate
initiatives and prioritize them. I also worked cross-functionally with the
sales, services, project, implementation and support teams, in addition to the
engineering and design team.

What are your career aspirations?

I am looking to continue my journey in product management in the technology
space. I am always looking to increase my knowledge and develop new skills
professionally and personally. I want to learn from everyone I meet and share
my experiences.

What advice would you give to students considering Duke Engineering?

Duke is an amazing place to be. The courses are revealing, and you learn a lot
that you will retain for life. When it gets tough, as Dumbledore says, “Help
is given to those who ask for it.” Ask for help if you need anything—your
classmates, the Pratt School of Engineering professors and Duke will always
help you. Connect with senior students, they always have the best advice—even
if you’re just looking for places to explore in Durham or North Carolina. And,
have fun!

The Master of Engineering Management is a degree program in Duke Engineering's
Institute for Enterprise Engineering. To explore all our education programs,
visit ene.duke.edu »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

