

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# The Rise of the Master of Engineering Management Degree

October 2, 2018 | By Michael Abrams

Jeffrey Glass, director of Duke University’s Master of Engineering Management
Program and professor of ECE, believes any engineer could benefit from the
degree

_Originally published by ASME_

The Master of Engineering Management degree is on the rise. On the surface it
might seem the degree is meant for engineers eager to climb a few rungs in
their career, hone their business skills, or flex their leadership skills.

But Jeffrey Glass, faculty director of Duke University’s Master of Engineering
Management Program and a professor of electrical and computer engineering at
the university, believes that any engineer could benefit from the degree. On
the one hand, it’s more common for engineers to find themselves in management
positions early in their careers. More important is the changing nature of
engineering jobs at any level.

“What I think is a bigger driver for the Master of Engineering Management
degrees that are coming up—and there are so many more than there were even
five or ten years ago—is this idea that we no longer do engineering in a
vacuum,” Glass says.

The traditional engineer of yesterday was given an engineering problem to
solve and then did it. In school, the approach is often underscored with
problems that have clearly defined answers. That’s not how it works in the
real world anymore.

In earning an MEM degree, students learn the systems perspective, “where you
look at an organization and the problems you’re trying to solve in a broader
sense, not just from the simple engineering solution,” Glass says. “Now you
have to solve a customer problem, an engineering problem, an organizational
problem, and a stakeholder problem.”

It’s not only that engineers must now know the context of the problems they’re
working on. They are also faced with blurry end-zones and fuzzy data. “You’re
going to have to decide when enough is enough and make a decision based on
ambiguous information,” Glass says, “I think that’s a huge shift in the
mindset.”

While the MEM program trains engineers for the leadership skills and business
acumen needed in managerial roles, the skills gained through the degree can be
applied to many aspects of a job. Engineers with this broader outlook are more
and more sought after, whatever the position they are being sought to fill.

“Companies are going to see them as much more highly valued because they
understand some of the decisions that maybe can’t be explained with the
principles and the knowledge that a conventional engineer would have,” Glass
says. “If they have this knowledge of the organizational context and the
business context, they understand that, ‘OK, there are things here that are
not related to the technology or engineering. I can accept that.’ ”

It might seem, at first glance, that dealing with such ambiguity is
antithetical to the typical engineering frame of mind. But this isn’t
necessarily the case. “I’ve managed a lot of engineers, and what I love about
it is that they are very analytical and willing to learn anything, anytime,”
Glass says. “So that makes them very good in terms of management. The
ambiguity problem is just a matter of practice, it’s a matter of skill sets
applied to a different environment.”

The bottom line is that an MEM degree not only helps engineers be better
managers, but trains them to be better overall employees. “It’s not to set
them up to be a manger right away, but to be the most effective engineer right
away,” Glass says.

\---

_Michael Abrams is an independent writer._

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

