

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Ryan Wallace Finds his Niche in Industry

March 15, 2004 | By David King

By David King

Ryan Wallace strives to be a leader. As early as high school, Wallace
remembers his aspirations to become a leader in the field of engineering. And
now at DuPont Cyrel®, Wallace is a leader, with a bright future ahead of
him.Wallace joined DuPont Cyrel® as a part of their Field Engineering Program
immediately after completing his Duke Masters of Engineering Management (MEM)
degree in May 2002. DuPont's program, designed to shape talented engineers
into leaders, fit Wallace perfectly. On a six-to-eight year timetable, he and
other engineers in the program will rotate to different businesses within the
company about every two years. When they complete the program, these highly
trained engineers are able to select which business fits them best for
establishing their careers.

Wallace's first job with DuPont required leadership from the get-go. As a
group supervisor in manufacturing, he supervised eighty-four employees on
various shifts. He found himself responsible for productivity, quality, safety
in operations, and personnel activities specific to the manufacturing process.

Wallace transitioned to his second assignment as a Quality Engineer in
September 2003. Although still tied to operations, his position is much more
technical. Looking at different concepts such as defect elimination and
measurement system analysis, he hopes to improve the quality and efficiency of
the manufacturing processes and the product he examines. He's finding
excitement and new challenges in each new task he undertakes.

Duke's Masters of Engineering Management degree from Duke helped make
Wallace's goals to have a leadership career a reality. Wallace enrolled
himself into engineering internships each summer beginning as a junior in high
school. By the time he had graduated with his mechanical engineering degree
from the University of Virginia, he already had a wide variety of work
experience and technical skills under his belt. Throughout college, he served
in leadership roles of several organizations on Virginia's campus.

Wallace had always planned on pursuing further education beyond his Bachelor's
in engineering. Originally, he desired to go all the way for his PH.D.,
affording him an opportunity to teach in the field he so enjoyed. He later
decided that teaching probably was not for him, and neither was a career in
research. So he considered his options. Not wanting to be the "typical
engineer" who focused only down one narrow technical corridor, Wallace wanted
to be "an engineer who could do anything." He knew he wanted to get a handle
on business and law, and so considered an MBA or a J.D. Yet, Wallace felt
these fields would force him to bypass a career in engineering.

Wallace also considered a Master's in industrial engineering. He knew
industrial engineering would expose him to process management and system
optimization, which were topics of great interest to him. However, it was not
long before further search turned up an MEM program. Here was a program that
fit with what Wallace had been searching for: exposure to processes, people,
and business. Wallace gained much of his information about Duke's program from
the Web, and after talking with a friend who had already completed the Duke
degree, Wallace was sold. He finally found what he had been looking for, and
Duke's program fit the bill.

Wallace entered Duke that next year with realistic expectations. He wanted
exposure to different curricula: engineering, business, and law. He also hoped
to gain a better understanding of where he wanted to be vocationally in the
long term. Although he knew he wanted to apply his leadership skills in
management, he hoped to clarify some of his many interests. "I did not have a
focused direction when I entered the program. I knew I wanted to be a leader,
but what type?"

When asked if his experience at Duke met his expectations, he adamantly
agreed. "I would do it ten more times if I could," he replied. "My experiences
there guided me in the right direction."

The MEM program also affirmed his desire to stay in engineering. "Whereas,
some of my colleagues may have been using the MEM to get out of engineering, I
definitely wanted to stay in engineering and further develop my skills."
Wallace also found himself continually focused management of people and
systems. Earning his MEM degree put in the favorable position of being able to
explore and clarify his interests.

Wallace gave much of the credit to his MEM courses for shaping his future. "In
marketing, I learned how a business works and how an organization functions,"
Wallace said. "I began to see how all the pieces fit together."

Being exposed to real life business cases through the numerous case studies,
"you analyze the situations that organizations go through and how they react
to them. Opportunities are then provided for teams to collaborate and
brainstorm to come up with creative and effective solutions," he said.

Wallace said that exposure to real life case studies remains invaluable to him
as he faces some of the same problems working for a large company today.
Wallace also recounted how his Management course focused his leadership
potential by teaching him different ways to lead. He studied various
leadership styles and the different effects they could have on an
organization.

The Entrepreneurship course was one of his favorite classes. Having had
notions of starting his own business before, Wallace listened to learn the ins
and outs of starting one's own company.

"I am definitely a little more realistic now after seeing the risks associated
with it," Wallace said. Although still not closing himself off to the
possibility down the road, it was just the type of information he needed to
help guide him towards making informed career decisions.

Wallace praises the flexibility of the program's engineering courses. In
comparison to his undergraduate degree where there was little chance for
deviation, Wallace loved the opportunity of being exposed to different
engineering disciplines. While he took one class within his discipline of
mechanical engineering, Wallace also branched out to take classes in civil and
biomedical engineering. "I didn't want to be pigeon-holed into one
discipline," he said.

At Duke, as professors continuously assigned numerous responsibilities and
tasks, you would accumulate several projects to complete and deadlines to
meet." Half-joking, Wallace asserts "this was a great lesson for the crisis
management skills one would need to develop in order to manage deadlines
effectively on a day to day basis."

Wallace's MEM experience helped him transition from his first to second job
within DuPont Cyrel@ where the last person had already left the company.
Wallace had to move quickly from knowing little about the job to performing
and getting results. "My learning curve was shortened with the abilities I had
learned in process management: absorb information, interpret the information,
and then get to performing. A lot of this came straight from the case
studies," Wallace explained. "You figure out what is going on, determine what
happened and why, and then make recommendations." In addition to the facts, it
was the _skills_ Wallace gained during his MEM program that continually aid
him in his work.

Wallace enjoys working at DuPont in part because he enjoys seeing and learning
a number of different processes and businesses. He also loves being around the
technology. He values the ability of not being forced into an assignment that
allows him to learn only one process for his whole career. It is the freshness
and variety that fuels Wallace's love for his job. Naturally, these positives
serve as Wallace's greatest praise for the MEM program as well.

He advises those enrolled in or considering the MEM program, "Ask a lot of
questions of those people that are doing what you think you may want to do.
Step out of your comfort zone. Build as much diversity in your experience as
you can." Wallace said that his MEM degree helped him do exactly that.

You have to find opportunities to get exposure to the people you can ask
questions of," Wallace said. He found that the seminars the MEM program
offered with presentations by professionals in the field benefited him
tremendously.

By talking to them, I could see if I would want to take on a job similar to
theirs without having to spend five years in a career deciding firsthand,"
Wallace stated.

Ryan Wallace is an individual who continues to capitalize on both his talents
and opportunities. His time at Duke remained no exception. For Wallace, the
MEM program took his high aspirations and gifts and helped him focus them into
a career. Now with both skills and direction, Wallace cannot wait to see what
new opportunities lie ahead for him to discover next.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

