

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Senner Well on Way to Construction Management Career

May 24, 2006

In an autobiography written by Will Senner in one of his elementary school
yearbooks, he made a prediction: He was going to go to Duke. Although it
wasnt a comment the Connecticut native initially remembered when applying to
colleges, it turned out he had been right. He enrolled at Duke's Pratt School
of Engineering in 2002.

Now a senior civil engineering major and economics minor, Senner is already
looking forward to kicking off a career in design-build construction
management. Design-build refers to a streamlined construction method in which
a single company is involved from the design stage all the way through to
construction, he explained.

But first, Senner—who has excelled in the classroom and beyond—will complete
his master's degree in engineering management through the Pratt School's
one-year program (MEMP). The program aims to develop future industry leaders
by combining a core management curriculum with a master's level technical
education and an engineering internship. The Pratt degree is offered with the
support of Duke University's Fuqua School of Business and the Duke School of
Law.

Although still technically an undergraduate, Senner said his AP credits and
hard work allowed him to begin graduate courses in what would have been his
final year at Duke. With just one additional semester at the Pratt School next
fall, he will have his graduate degree.

"The program generally hadn't been open to undergrads," Senner said. "But,
for me it was a perfect fit."

Senner knew from the start that his interest lay in construction, and enrolled
in introductory courses that could have led him to either mechanical or civil
engineering. He ultimately chose civil and environmental engineering as the
department best suited to his personality and interests.

"Civil is a great department," Senner said. "It's so small, you get to
know the entire faculty, and they all know me."

He also sought out extracurricular opportunities that offered the hands-on
building experience he craved, signing up for Duke Motorsports as a freshman.

"I was on the engine team," Senner said. "It was my first hands-on project
outside of the classroom."

Duke University Motorsports is a student group that designs and builds open
wheel, single seat racecars to compete in the Formula SAE competition
sponsored by the Society of Automotive Engineers. In the 2005 SAE race, the
student-built car placed 31st in a field of 140 teams at the competition in
Detroit, Michigan—the best finish in school history.

Senner later got involved with the annual concrete canoe competition held at
the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Carolinas Conference, in which
students design, build and race a canoe made of concrete, and with the Duke
Smart Home, which is to be a 4,500 square foot live-in research laboratory
operated by the Pratt School.

It was during a summer internship working with an architect and team of
engineers to design the Smart Home that Senner said he really started to home
in on what to do after graduation.

"It was a great learning experience," he said. "It's not just the house or
the smart features—it's learning how the process works, how to interact
with different players and get people on board."

He has continued his involvement with the Smart Home this year as student
president, a role that has allowed him to integrate his expertise in
engineering with his newfound managerial skills gleaned from MEMP courses.
Senner oversees Smart Home project teams designing devices aimed at
integrating technologies that advance energy efficiency, safety, automation,
quality of life or environmentally-friendly design.

"The project management tools I've obtained through MEMP have been
incredibly useful in directing how project teams operate," Senner said. For
example, he instituted a requirement that teams develop project charter
documents in which they lay out their goals and plans for completing designs
from the outset, including deadlines and expectations of team members.

"It's simple, but at the same time, it isn't just student teams that don't
always think about such things—that can happen in industry too," he said.

Senner sums up his Pratt experience this way: "It's been a fun ride," he
said. "I couldn't have imagined it being any better."

Senner will complete an internship this summer with the construction company
SKANSKA in Williamsburg, Virginia, where his parents now live. He will be
working on a mixed use development, to include homes and a movie theater.
After completing the MEMP program next year, he expects to spend at least a
few years working in the construction industry and hopes to ultimately start
his own company.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

