

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Startup Open

November 16, 2011

Duke engineers won big at the Startup Open competition during Global
Entrepreneurship Week (GEW) 2011 in Boston. The team included two alumnae and
a graduate student and their start-up company for micro-turbine technology.

The competition team includes Jason Ethier ‘10 BSE, Hardy Shen ’09 BSE, ’10
MEMP, and current mechanical engineering graduate Ivan Wang, ’09 BSE.

Their winning company, Dynamo Micropower, was founded by Ethier and focuses on
a proprietary ultra-micro turbine architecture that could supplant
conventional power solutions in the sub-10kW range.

Ethier will receive one year of mentoring from Redbox founding members and
serial entrepreneurs Michael DeLazzer and Biju Kulathaka of the Entrepreneurs’
Organization. The program will also include a trip to DeLazzer’s home in Marco
Island, Fla. where Ethier’s business plan will be scrutinized and market
opportunities will be identified.

“Young firms, like those conceptualized by Jason, are the linchpins to
revitalizing the world economy,” said Carl Schramm, president and CEO of the
Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, founder of GEW. “Their ingenuity, innovation
and entrepreneurial passions exemplify the spirit of entrepreneurship and will
inspire others to strive to create new firms.”

Selected startups from the “GEW 50” will be invited to participate in Start-Up
Chile, a program that attracts early-stage entrepreneurs from around the world
to start a business in Chile. The program offers startups $40,000 in equity-
free, seed capital and a one-year work visa in Chile, along with access to
social and capital networks in the country.

The Startup Open competition, now in its second year, was open to
entrepreneurs who had a “startup moment” in the past year. The latest
competition coincided with the beginning of GEW, an initiative to spur new
ideas, ingenuity and firm creation through local, national and global
activities. A record 123 countries took part in the week-long event. In the
U.S. alone, more than 1,400 organizations – including universities, non-profit
organizations, startups, government agencies and corporate sponsors – hosted
3,500 GEW events.

In four years, GEW has expanded to more than 100 countries — empowering nearly
20 million people through 95,000 activities. Supported by the Kauffman
Foundation, the initiative is supported by dozens of world leaders and a
growing network of 24,000 partner organizations.

The Kauffman Foundation is a private nonpartisan foundation that works to
harness the power of entrepreneurship and innovation to grow economies and
improve human welfare. Founded by late entrepreneur and philanthropist Ewing
Marion Kauffman, the foundation is based in Kansas City, Mo. and has
approximately $2 billion in assets.

The other winner was the company Fenugreen, which offers patented, all-natural
material to address the global challenge of food spoilage.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

