

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Study Points to "Brain-Drain" of Skilled U.S. Immigrant Entrepreneurs to
Home Countries

August 22, 2007

More than one million skilled immigrant workers—including Indian and Chinese
scientists and engineers—and their families are competing for 120,000
permanent U.S. resident visas each year. This sizeable imbalance is likely to
fuel a "reverse brain-drain" with skilled workers returning to their home
countries, according to a new report from researchers at Duke and other
universities released Wednesday by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation.

The situation is even bleaker as the number of employment visas issued to
immigrants from any single country is less than 10,000 per year, with a wait
time of several years.

The United States benefits from having foreign-born innovators create their
ideas in this country," said Vivek Wadhwa, executive in residence at Duke's
Pratt School of Engineering and Wertheim Fellow with the Harvard Law School.
"Their departures would be detrimental to U.S. economic well-being. When
foreigners come to the United States, collaborate with Americans in developing
and patenting new ideas, and employ those ideas in business in ways they could
not readily do in their home countries, the world benefits."

Conducted by researchers at Duke, New York University and Harvard University,
the study is the third in a series that focuses on immigrants' contributions
to the competitiveness of the U.S. economy. Earlier research revealed a
dramatic increase in the contributions of foreign nationals to U.S.
intellectual property over an eight-year period.

In this study, "Intellectual Property, the Immigration Backlog, and a Reverse
Brain-Drain," researchers offer a more refined measure of this rise in
contributions of foreign nationals to U.S. intellectual property and analyze
the possible impact of the immigrant-visa backlog for skilled workers. The key
finding from this research is that the number of skilled workers waiting for
visas is significantly larger than the number that can be admitted to the
United States. This imbalance creates the potential for a sizeable reverse
brain-drain from the U.S. to the skilled workers' home countries.

These findings are important, highlighting the invaluable contribution of
foreign nationals to our country's technological and economic vitality," said
Duke Provost Peter Lange, the university's top academic officer. "We know from
our own experience here that students from China, India and other nations can
play an outstanding role in advancing knowledge and creating new jobs,
especially in cutting-edge fields."

The earlier studies, "America's New Immigrant Entrepreneurs" and
"Entrepreneurship, Education and Immigration: America's New Immigrant
Entrepreneurs, Part II," documented that one in four engineering and
technology companies founded between 1995 and 2005 had an immigrant founder.
Researchers found these companies employed 450,000 workers and generated $52
billion in revenue in 2006. Indian immigrants founded more companies than the
next four groups (from the United Kingdom, China, Taiwan and Japan) combined.

Furthermore, these companies' founders tended to be highly educated in
science, technology, math and engineering-related disciplines, with 96 percent
holding bachelor's degrees and 75 percent holding master's or Ph.D. degrees.

The analysis of the World Intellectual Property Organization database in this
earlier work revealed the percentage of foreign nationals contributing to U.S.
international patent applications increased from an estimated 7.3 percent in
1998 to 24.2 percent in 2006. The largest foreign-born group was from China
(mainland and Taiwan). Indian nationals were second, followed by Canadian and
British nationals.

Among key findings in the most recent report:

  * Foreign nationals residing in the U.S. were named as inventors or co-
    inventors in 25.6 percent of international patent applications filed from
    the U.S. in 2006. This represents an increase from 7.6 percent in 1998.
  * Foreign nationals contributed to more than half of the international
    patents filed by a number of large, multi-national companies, including
    Qualcomm (72 percent), Merck & Co. (65 percent), General Electric (64
    percent), Siemens (63 percent) and Cisco (60 percent). Forty-one percent
    of the patents filed by the U.S. government had foreign nationals as
    inventors or co-inventors.
  * In 2006, 16.8 percent of international patent applications from the U.S.
    had an inventor or co-inventor with a Chinese-heritage name, representing
    an increase from 11.2 percent in 1998. The contribution of inventors with
    Indian-heritage names increased to 13.7 percent from 9.5 percent in the
    same period.
  * The total number of principals in the employment-based categories and
    their family members waiting for legal permanent residence in the U.S. in
    2006 was estimated at 1,055,084. Additionally, there are an estimated
    126,421 residents abroad also waiting for employment-based U.S. legal
    permanent residence, adding up to a worldwide total of 1,181,505.

Using data from the New Immigrant Survey, the authors found that in 2003 about
one in five new legal immigrants in the U.S. and about one in three
employment-based new legal immigrants either planned to leave the U.S. or were
uncertain about remaining. The authors had no data on how many foreign
nationals have actually returned to their homelands.

Given that the U.S. comparative advantage in the global economy is in creating
knowledge and applying it to business, it behooves the country to consider how
we might adjust policies to reduce the immigration backlog, encourage
innovative foreign minds to remain in the country and entice new innovators to
come," said Robert Litan, vice president of research and policy at the
Kauffman Foundation.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

