

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Students Take on International Outsourcing Debate

March 1, 2006

After a slew of late-night phone calls overseas and hours spent slogging
through numbers, an international group of Pratt students in the Master of
Engineering Management Program has gathered evidence challenging the notion
that the U.S. is losing its technological edge to developing nations like
China and India.

Led by MEMP student and Virginia native Ben Rissing, the group sought to offer
a more refined analysis of the number of engineering and non-engineering
related degrees awarded annually by the United States, India and China. The
students presented their findings, which had earlier been published online, on
Feb. 20.

The team said the ultimate goal of their ongoing efforts is to provide a more
accurate picture of the threat presented by outsourcing, and recommendations
for more effective ways to produce U.S. engineers less vulnerable to its
effects. Faculty leaders Vivek Wadhwa, executive in residence at the Pratt
School, and Gary Gereffi, professor of sociology, guided the students in their
research.

Our objective is to find out what the numbers actually are to determine if the
U.S. is really falling behind," Rissing said. "We will also survey industry to
identify the future directions of outsourcing. That should help determine what
to teach engineers to help make them more outsourcing-proof.

The numbers frequently cited suggest that the U.S. graduated 70,000
undergraduate engineers in 2004, while China graduated 600,000 and India
350,000, Rissing said. However, those commonly quoted numbers tell only part
of the story, the group found.

"The statistics released from organizations in China and India include not
only four-year degrees, but also three-year degrees and diploma holders," the
group reported. "These numbers have been compared against the annual
production of accredited four-year engineering degrees in the United States.

The distinction is an important one, the students said, because it is the jobs
of "transactional engineers" in the U.S. that are most often outsourced to
"dynamic engineers" in India and China. They define transactional engineers as
those who most often conduct rote or repetitive tasks in the workforce and
usually hold technician or diploma awards as opposed to four-year degrees.
Dynamic engineers, on the other hand, are individuals capable of abstract
thinking and high-level, scientific problem solving, more typical of graduates
with a bachelor's degree from accredited universities, they said.

The students first set out to identify credible, well-documented and
comparable engineering educational statistics for the U.S., China and India—a
task they quickly found was easier said than done.

It's hard to contact universities in India," said Nishanth Lingamneni, from
Hyderabad, India, whose job it was to track down graduation data for his home
country. "Just getting the correct phone number is a challenge. And then, even
though I speak the language, the people often didn't seem to understand me."

The coding system for Indian phone numbers was recently revamped, the students
explained, making any information obtained from websites more than one or two
years old useless. The many dialects spoken in India and uncertainty about
what the students were asking for added to the challenge, they added.

The team discovered that the Indian government was an unreliable source for
graduation data, finally settling on the National Association of Software and
Service Companies (NASSCOM) instead. After 10 nights of phone calling through
the night, Lingamneni finally got the numbers he was looking for.

Fiona (Qi) Weng from Beijing met with similar struggles in her efforts to
obtain easily interpretable information from the Ministry of Education in
China. "In China, the 'engineering' category is broadly defined," Weng said.
This means that the reported number of engineers produced by China in 2004 may
very well include the equivalent of motor mechanics and industrial
technicians, the students said.

To create a more accurate comparison between the number of engineers produced
by each country, the students included engineers, computer scientists and
information technology specialists in the U.S. data obtained from the U.S.
Department of Education's National Center for Educational Statistics. That
method raised the number of graduates in the U.S. to 222,335, compared to
215,000 in India and 644,106 in China, they reported.

When the group factored differences in the country's population size into the
equation, they found that the U.S. produces roughly 750 technology specialists
per 1 million citizens, compared with 500 in China and 200 in India.

"This experience has changed our perspectives along with the perspectives of
others in the MEMP program and beyond," said Todd Stevens, from West Deptford,
N. J. "People realize we've been working our tails off and they are interested
because this potentially impacts the future of their job security.

We're educating more than just ourselves," he said.

Indeed, the Duke study continues to receive significant attention in major
media outlets ranging from _The Wall Street Journal_ to CNN International. The
National Academies and other policymakers have also taken note, Wadhwa said.

"The students are having a real impact on the national debate," Wadhwa said.
"Just because they are students doesn't mean they can't change the world."

This semester, the students are continuing their efforts to dissect the
graduation statistics from China, which largely remain a "black box," Rissing
said. The group also hopes to collect outsourcing survey information from at
least 100 major companies.

Other MEMP students involved in the project include Kiran Kalakuntla, from
Hyderabad, India; Soomi Cheong from Seoul, Korea; Patrick Chen from Westford,
MA; Shingayi Sikipa from Harare, Zimbabwe; Arron Fan from Nanjing, China;
Bansi Kotecha and Ramakrishnan Balasubramanian from Mumbai, India; and Chun Wu
from Oakland, CA.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

