

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Students Aim for Smarter Fuel, Smarter Homes

June 1, 2006

With gasoline prices on the rise, graduate students in the Master of
Engineering Management Program are working toward a solution. A business plan
they wrote for a novel fuel additive meant to boost gasoline efficiency and
reduce tailpipe emissions won them a spot in the final round of a national
licensing competition.

The glycerin-derived chemical, GTBE, could replace one recently phased out due
to problems with water contamination.

"We aim to capture the emerging market for fuel additives," said student
competitor Srikanth Chunduri, who is from India. "GTBE is a promising
replacement fuel additive that could fill the gap from the loss of the
additive MTBE."

The students developed the plan for GTBE through **ECE 299: Intellectual Asset
Management and the Patent Process** , a course taught by Pratt School
professor and alum Guerry Grune. "The class is designed to teach students how
to leverage the intellectual property value of patents," said Grune, who is
also a registered patent agent.

"It's amazing what the students accomplished in a very short period of time,"
Grune said.

"The students had several technology options from which to choose," he added.
"They selected GTBE because it's a white-hot area right now. The high price of
gasoline has everyone interested in alternatives."

Low levels of MTBE had been a standard component of gasoline since 1979 to
help engines run more smoothly, according to the Environmental Protection
Agency. Higher concentrations came into widespread use in 1992 to fulfill
requirements set by Congress in the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments.

MTBE allows gasoline to burn more completely, thereby reducing harmful
tailpipe emissions. However, the additive has come under fire in recent years
due to its role in groundwater pollution. At many east coast gas pumps over
the last month, MTBE has been replaced with ethanol.

However, the move to ethanol is expected to spike the already high price of
gasoline this summer. The chemical also has some other potential limitations,
for example, ethanol lowers the miles per gallon because it possesses less
energy than gasoline.

And that's where GTBE comes in, according to the MEMP students.

GTBE, a chemical invented and patented by David Bradin, has numerous
advantages for making gasoline go farther and for cleaning up automobile
emissions, they said. It can be manufactured from glycerine, a waste by-
product of biodiesel, or other renewable materials using the existing
infrastructure for biodiesel plants.

The students had the opportunity to work directly with Bradin, an organic
chemist and patent attorney, and Grune to create a business plan for their
newly formed company CPS Biofuels.

"There are no blockbuster fuel additives on the horizon," said MEMP student
Brian Glassman, a native of Miami, FL. "The major gas companies are focused on
big markets; we are finding our niche in a smaller, emerging market."

The quality of the students' written plan landed them the opportunity to
present at the 2006 Edwin A. Shallaway Graduate Student Licensing Competition
held in Philadelphia in conjunction with the Spring Meeting of the Licensing
Executive Society.

"The students did a ton of patent analysis, mapping and licensing to create a
strong business plan with appeal to investors," said GTBE inventor Bradin.
"They took the chemistry to a marketable plan to become finalists in a
national competition. How cool is that?"

The Duke team was one of three runners up that each received $1,000 prizes for
their submissions. Other students on the Duke team included Mariella Corcuera
from Toronto, Batul Tambawalla from Raleigh, NC, Harish Jaysankar from India
and Michael Durbin from St. Louis, MO, all of Duke, and Pratik Jhanb of North
Carolina State University.

Two graduate students from the University of Illinois at Chicago took first
prize and $10,000 for their plan to develop groundbreaking cancer therapies
based on a new technology. Other finalists included a plan for the development
of a smaller and longer-lasting battery for implantable medical devices from
Stanford and a plan for a device that would help those with chronic ear
ringing from Wake Forest.

"Students are often not taught about the opportunity and value that can be
gained through the licensing of IP," said Richard Razgaitis, president of the
Licensing Foundation, in a news release. "Our competition is unique in that it
promotes an awareness and demonstrates how things like patents and trademarks
can bring tremendous benefits in both time-to-market and sustainable
competitive advantage. It's how most small companies succeed."

Sponsored by the Licensing Foundation Inc., a non-profit subsidiary of the
Licensing Executives Society (USA & Canada) Inc., the Licensing Competition,
is designed to simulate a real-world venture capital experience. Entries were
judged based on a variety of factors including attractiveness of the venture,
quality of the product or service offered, market opportunity and investment
potential.

## Smarter Homes: Duke at EPA's P3 Competition

Duke was one of 41 teams selected to compete for the EPA's P3 (People,
Prosperity and the Planet) Design Contest held on the National Mall in
Washington, DC,in early May. An interdisciplinary team competed with actual
technology prototypes related to the Duke Smart Home, including a solar
tracker, a hot water recovery system, a photovoltaic water cooling panel, and
a grey water recovery system.

Duke Smart Home Director Tom Rose called the experience fantastic. "It was an
amazing opportunity for our students to connect what we've been doing with the
real world. We demonstrated working prototypes to people and felt we really
made an impact," he said. "We were literally 200 yards from the capital
building. It felt like we were part of something big to be there."

The team had ample opportunity to explain their research to the families,
businessmen, congressmen and senators who came to see the P3 event on the
National Mall. "Every student took at least 3 steps up in presentation ability
after spending the day talking with people about our projects and honing our
messages. They went from nervously saying 'I've never talked to the media
before,' to sounding very professional," said Rose.

"It was an absolutely magical moment when we were approached by an engineer
from a senate advisory committee who has been commissioned to 'green' some
public buildings. He wanted to know what we recommended," said Rose. "We've
been working for years to develop this body of knowledge about smart buildings
and homes and suddenly there was an outlet for it. It was amazing."

The team who traveled to Washington included Smart Home Director Tom Rose,
sophomore Jeff Schwane, ME juniors Byron Alvarez, Kellan Dickens, Frank
Coleman and, Steven Felkins, CE junior Lisa Duty and Master of Engineering
Management graduate student Rob Liebert. They were accompanied by faculty
adviser, Associate Professor John Board as well as Professor David Schaad.

Because the Duke team was one of the few with actual technology prototypes,
they received a lot of media attention, and provided interviews to MSNBC,
Voice of American, HDN, RadioHotline with Dennis Price, NBC News, the
Associated Press and Getty Images.

"Even though we didn't win the competition, we don't feel like we lost," said
Rose. "We got all the benefits of taking part in the competition. The contest
was a huge motivator for our team and knowing we were going to represent Duke
to the public was important to us. This experience really reinforces for us
the importance of having public interaction as part of the curriculum for all
future Duke Smart Home students."

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

