

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# MEM Program Led Tam to Start Non-Profit Aimed at Cervical Cancer's
Prevention

October 3, 2007 | ImaGyn Experience written by Theoderick Tam, Master's of
Engineering Management Class of 2007

ImaGyn Experience written by Theoderick Tam, Master's of Engineering
Management Class of 2007

Imagine if you had a year to do whatever you wanted. What would you do? Well,
I decided to spend my year in Durham, North Carolina, and I discovered
adventure here.

My name is Theo Tam and I am an engineer from California. Before beginning the
Master of Engineering Management program at Pratt, I designed parts for
Lockheed Martin Space Systems Company as a mechanical engineer. I enjoyed life
as a rocket scientist, but I quickly realized that an advanced degree would
help me get the education and recognition that I would need to pursue my
career goals. Looking back at the profile I submitted to the program last
year, my goals were to "design medical devices for developing countries, and
perhaps start a company in the process."

It happened.

This year, my project team designed a cervical cancer prevention device and we
won the $100,000 CUREs Business Plan Competition to start our own non‐profit
company, ImaGyn. Through the process, I’ve met with corporate executives,
traveled to Haiti with a leading women’s health specialist, pitched to angel
investors and venture capitalists, directed an MBA student practicum, and
we’ve been featured in major publications including NPR and Business Week.

This success was only possible through the opportunities and resources from
MEM. The project started with the New Social Ventures Fellowship. This
organization connected us with leading business thinkers in the community,
including the original inventor of our medical device, Dr. David Walmer, and
we met our business mentors, Brent Ward and Abhi Gupta, during the first
networking seminar. With the support of these three mentors, the medical,
academic and business community welcomed us in and provided resources and
insight at every step of the way.

I also found community through this experience. My closest friendships here
were forged through countless sleepless nights debating business strategy,
prototyping in the lab, and preparing for meetings and presentations. We
absorbed our course material in real‐time. By day we studied marketing
strategy and project management and by night we applied it.

Brent and Abhi redefined my understanding of mentorship. At times, I would get
three calls a day from them with ideas, advice and encouragement. After taking
me through rounds, surgery and other exams in Haiti, Dr. Walmer would sit down
and share his heart about the thing that matters most to him— relationships.
This drives his passion to love God, his family and the Haitian people. These
friends have challenged my thinking both professionally and personally, and
they have fundamentally influenced my life perspective.

I hope that my story has been an encouragement to you. I am fortunate to have
had these opportunities, but they are not unique to me. The program here opens
the same doors to all of its students. If you come with a vision and you are
willing to execute, there is a lot in store for you here!

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

