

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Technology Evaluation Program Connects Researchers to Business World

December 16, 2004

Duke Universitys Pratt School of Engineering, in collaboration with RTI
International, has launched a new program designed to identify, evaluate and
bring research products to market.

Unlike traditional technology transfer processes found at most universities
today, the new program, named TechEval, pairs researchers with experienced
business leaders and students from the Masters of Engineering Management (MEM)
program at Duke who then evaluate the technology in a practical, real-world
environment. Qualified inventions are taken rapidly through the evaluation
process in about 14 weeks.

The TechEval program is an exciting opportunity for our students to help
researchers evaluate their research for its commercial potential, said Jeff
Glass, PhD, the MEM program director. It enhances both our educational
mission and our goals of societal impact for our research. It is a unique
opportunity that I hope many of our faculty and graduate students take
advantage of.

The TechEval team organized a launch event in mid-November, in which
professors, researchers, local venture capitalists and consultants came
together to learn more about the program and its potential role in the
commercialization of technologies that are emerging in the Triangle area.
Several researchers have signed up to participate in the program as a result.

Researchers do not always have the time, resources and business connections to
easily understand the value and impact of their innovation in the
marketplace, said Jesko von Windheim, lead instructor and entrepreneur in
residence at RTI. As a result, many inventions never realize their market
potential, or worse, an innovator spends too much time moving the technology
in the wrong direction.

The best investment an innovator can make is validating his or her technology
with real potential customers during the early stages of technology
development. That is what we are doing at RTI and it is also the essence of
what we do in the TechEval course.

TechEval enables early-stage technology evaluation for the entire university,
regardless of school or technology application. The program operates in
conjunction with other resources that provide business planning services, such
as the Duke New Ventures Fellowship and the Duke New Ventures Clinic.

* * *

The Master of Engineering Management professional degree program at Duke
develops future industry leaders by combining a core management curriculum
with a masters level technical education and an engineering internship. The
program includes business law, finance, marketing and management with an
emphasis on technology management and entrepreneurship. In addition, students
choose technical electives from a wide variety of courses within the Pratt
School of Engineering, in other schools at Duke and at nearby North Carolina
State University.

RTI International is an independent nonprofit research organization dedicated
to conducting research and development that improves the human condition. With
a staff of more than 2,500 people, RTI offers innovative research and
technical solutions to governments and businesses worldwide in the areas of
health and pharmaceuticals, advanced technology, surveys and statistics,
education and training, economic and social development, and the environment.
For more information, visit.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

