

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Translating Classroom Culture

October 30, 2013

A new book published by MEM staffer Bridget Fletcher charts a course for
success for Chinese students embarking on a US graduate program

Bridget Fletcher, Assistant Director of Student Services for Pratt
Professional Masters Students, and head of Pratt Professional Masters English
Programs, now adds Author to her credentials with the release of **Jiao Shi to
Classroom: A Guidebook for Chinese Students Preparing for Graduate School in
the US** , available as a free iPad or iTunes download in the Apple
iBookstore.

“Since joining MEMP in 2007, the energy and insight that our international
students bring to campus has inspired me greatly,” says Fletcher. “My work
with the student services team to design and lead programs to support the
transition into US graduate school classrooms led to my research into the
specific cultural dynamics at play for Chinese students. This book is the
first of what I hope will be a series of guides designed to assist students
from all over the world in achieving their academic and professional goals
through the US graduate school system.”

Several trips to Asia to meet with MEMP alumni and incoming students help to
inform Fletcher’s work, which includes commentary on US social, educational
and professional norms, as well as practical exercises to prepare students for
a variety of scenarios that may be unfamiliar or challenging upon their
arrival.

“The content of the book is based largely on my first-hand experiences with
Pratt students over the last six years,” Fletcher notes. “I’m excited to now
be able to provide a comprehensive reference for our incoming Chinese
students.”

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

