

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Treating Third World Spine Injuries

November 14, 2008

Later this month during Engineering Week, teams of students from the Pratt
School of Engineering and across the campus will compete in the annual Duke
Start-Up Challenge, a school-year-long competition that culminates in a
$25,000 prize.

Last year's first place winner was a company that developed a chip to be
implanted in the brain of epileptics to control their seizures, while the
runner-up developed a framework for the creation of games.

One of this year's team is taking a different tack. They are not creating a
device or computer application, but want to send already-existing medical
devices for spinal injuries to Third World countries and make them available
for free for patients. The plan is to use medical devices that are perfectly
fine but have been superseded by updated models.

There is a tremendous need for these devices in under-developed countries,
explained team member Jenna Maloka, a Pratt senior. A lot of attention is paid
to infectious diseases like HIV-AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. But there are
also many people who are not getting treatment for such conditions as
scoliosis, trauma or degenerative diseases.

The device the team is interested in sending overseas is fairly simple and
straightforward. It consists of two metal rods that are attached to either
side of the spine by screws or hooks. The plan not only includes the donation
of the surgical equipment, but the training of local surgeons to perform the
procedure.

The team has dubbed their company SpineFuSe, and it is made up of five
students, two of whom -- Kristen Bova and Joshua Napora Â– graduated last
year. The other team members include Maloka; Keddy Chandran, in the Master of
Engineering Management Program; and Trinity senior Gordon Closter.

The initial idea for SpineFuSe came from Duke orthopedic surgeon Bill
Richardson, who had been inspired by Lewis Zirkle, who completed his
orthopedic training at Duke during the Vietnam War era. After falling in love
with the country and its people, Zirkle created the Surgical Implant
Generation Network (SIGN), which has grown into a network of more than 140
hospitals in 49 countries.

Zirkle shuttles between the U.S. and foreign hospitals treating patients with
leg fractures with donated devices. To date he has helped more than 36,000
patients in under-developed countries walk.

I met Lou a number of years in Vietnam and realized that there was a real need
for something like his program for spinal injuries, Richardson said. Over the
years we've been thinking about how we could accomplish this, and then I
decided to approach Larry Boyd (associate director of Duke's Center for
Entrepreneurship and Research Commercialization), who then presented it to his
class.

One of the first challenges the team faced when they took up the challenge
last spring was defining a potential market for such a plan.

There wasn't a world-wide data base on spinal injuries in under-developed
countries, Chandran said. So we sent surveys to the hospitals in Dr. Zirkle's
network asking about the types and number of spinal cases they see and what
kinds of treatments patients receive. The striking thing we found is that
those patients who did receive surgery got devices that have been obsolete in
the U.S.

Most commonly, overseas patients with spinal injuries do not receive surgery,
but are put on bed rest. In some cases, patients can spend months on end in
the hospital, according to Richardson.

This causes extreme hardships for the patient and the family, Richardson said.
In my experience in Uganda, it is up to the families to provide food and care
for their hospitalized loved one, and there can be as few as one nurse for 60
patients. When the injured person is the family bread-winner, the consequences
can be devastating.

Now that the team has ascertained that there is a real need for these devices,
they are busy putting together its business plan. They hope to interest an MBA
student from the Fuqua School of Business to lend them the economic planning
expertise that they lack.

As we organize SpineFuSe, we ultimately want to create an entity that self-
sustainable, so we won't have to be continually looking for donations,
Chandran said. That is our major challenge – it is unlikely that a venture
capitol firm would support us, so we're hoping to identify a large company or
foundation that wants to help change health care around the world.

The team plans to enter SpineFuSe in the Social Track category of the Start-Up
Challenge. The other three tracks are Healthcare, Hi-Technology and Consumer
Products. Winners are chosen from each track, and one is selected as the
overall winner.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

