

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Two Decades of Growth: The Master of Engineering Management Program Turns 20

February 5, 2018 | By Jeni Baker

MEMP continues to evolve to meet student, industry needs

When founding director F. Hadley Cocks spearheaded the creation and 1997
launch of the Pratt School’s Master of Engineering Management Program (MEMP),
he wanted to create a smooth transition for engineering students who wished to
pursue careers in the business and management sides of the field.

“Many engineering students have these goals, but most business schools require
applicants to have several years of work experience to be considered for
admission – meaning that engineers would have to interrupt their careers to go
to business school,” says Cocks, who modeled Duke’s program after the one at
Dartmouth College.

“I believed our students would benefit from a one-year* program immediately
after graduation that teaches them to manage money, people, and projects.”

Cocks was right. During his seven years as director, the program grew steadily
and many other engineering schools have since developed similar programs.

To date, more than 1,600 students have earned MEM degrees at Duke.

Here’s a brief look at the program’s first 20 years.

## Components of Success

The ongoing evolution and success of Duke’s MEM Program can be attributed to a
number of factors, including these.

### Industry-Based Faculty, Relevant Courses

“A hallmark of Duke’s program is its close interaction with industry,” says
Jeff Glass, MEM Faculty Director since 2003. “That interaction – as well as
the number of companies we work with – has grown dramatically over the years.”

So has the number of faculty. There are currently 17 MEMP faculty members, a
number of whom have been recognized nationally and/or within the School of
Engineering.

“Because our faculty have vast experience in their fields of interest and a
passion for sharing their expertise with students, they focus on keeping
courses relevant to what’s happening in industry and the skills needed in
tomorrow’s organizations,” Glass says.

“With guidance from both industry partners and students, faculty develop new
courses and concentrations as needed and share best teaching practices with
one another. And because many more courses offered by other Duke schools are
now open to our students, they regularly take multidisciplinary classes across
the university.”

### An Array of Electives and Options

“Flexibility has always been one of the keys to the MEM Program’s growth and
success,” says Susan Brown, assistant director of admissions.

“We now offer options for both traditional and non-traditional students –
including dual-degree seekers, part-timers, distance and exchange students,
and U.S. Navy officers – as well as a wide variety of technical electives that
allow students to tailor the MEM degree to their interests and goals.”

Feedback from a 2004 alumni survey led the MEMP to add more electives, says
Brad Fox, the program’s executive director since 2003.

“This has been one of our most significant areas of growth,” Fox says. “We now
offer 20-plus electives, which enables students to focus on concentrations
such as Data and Decisions, Entrepreneurship, Innovation and
Commercialization, and Operations and Supply Chain Management.”

### Student-Faculty Partnership

The Master of Engineering Management Program Development Committee (MEMPDC) is
a student organization founded in 2005 to foster communication and partnership
with administrators.

“Our students have created a culture of being partners in program development
and improvements,” says Glass. “The MEMPDC makes recommendations on how to
help the program evolve and supports many co-curricular student clubs and
activities that foster the development of professional skills.”

### Online Applications, More Global Students

The 2008 rollout of an online MEMP application led to a significant jump in
both the number and geographic scope of applicants, as well as more students
accepted to the program, says Brown.

“We started seeing more international students and welcomed Fulbright
candidates from around the world,” she says. “Our class sizes steadily rose –
from 70 to 90 to 130...to as high as 155 in 2009.”

Classes are now limited to a more manageable 130-140 students, while the
percentage of global students has continued to grow.

“About 75 percent of our current students are from outside the U.S., and we
typically see 20 or more countries represented in our class profiles,” says
Brown.

### Distance Learning

The two-year Distributed Master of Engineering Management Program (d-MEMP), an
online distance-learning program, was launched in August 2009 to meet the
rising demand for engineering management degrees among working professionals
who don’t want to lose career momentum or leave their jobs, says Director of
Professional Masters Programs La Tondra Murray.

The d-MEMP curriculum is based on that of the campus MEM Program, and is
unique in that it includes three week-long, on-campus residency requirements
in addition to remote coursework.

Eleven students made up the first d-MEMP cohort. The cohorts now typically
comprise 25 to 30 distance learners – and have a matriculation rate of nearly
90 percent.

### Cultural Support for International Students

“Our large number of international learners requires cultural awareness,
support, and integration,” says Glass. “Our Industrial Advisory Board has
stressed that students must be able to work effectively across all types of
cultural boundaries, especially in diverse international teams.”

Bridget Fletcher, director of communication and intercultural programs, has
developed a number of activities and initiatives to help students optimize
both their experience and their performance.

“When I arrived in 2007, students had a three-hour orientation and jumped
right into coursework,” Fletcher says.

“They weren’t prepared for success in the program in several capacities,
including a basic understanding of who their classmates were. With students
coming from multiple countries with diverse educational backgrounds, they
often lacked a framework for communications with each other.”

Over the past ten years, Fletcher has developed a comprehensive student
orientation; activities during the academic year to promote community and
positive intercultural interactions; intercultural communications seminars and
workshops; and an internal ESL program for students.

She also established visits to China and India to meet with incoming students.

“These visits have led to a much more engaged and acclimated student
population,” she says. “Incoming students now know that our staff are
trustworthy and can proactively provide them with information that will make
their orientation and time at Duke far less daunting.”

### Career Services

The MEMP’s Career Services team has evolved to provide more comprehensive
support for students at all stages of their graduate experience – and now
includes an academic coordinator and three dedicated career counselors.

“A lot of transformation occurs between orientation and graduation, and our
Career Services team works very hard to meet student needs,” Murray says.

This has included greatly expanding its professional-development services,
says Glass.

“Since there were no Career Center activities focused on engineering masters
students when the MEM Program began, this has been a significant and positive
change,” he says.

## The Program Then and Now

Now one of the nation’s largest and leading programs of its kind, Duke’s MEM
Program started small.

“I have the utmost respect for Hadley’s vision and the many contributions he
made to start this program on its upward trajectory,” says Instructor C.J.
Skender, who has been involved with the MEMP since its inception.

“In addition, the leadership and administrative support of everyone involved
through the years has been phenomenal.”

Because he teaches a core combination finance/accounting course and a popular
elective, Skender has taught nearly every MEMP student.

“Our students are truly excited to be here, they love to learn, and their work
ethic and commitment to excellence is consistently strong.”

Click here for more news about Duke’s MEM Program.

_* Although originally designed to be completed in 12 months, about 75 percent
of MEM students now spend three semesters at Duke to complete their degrees._

## #DukeMEMP20 Timeline

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

