

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Using Technology to Give Back

March 21, 2013

MEM Alum Leverages Cellular Phone Technology to Advance Health Research in
Pakistan and Beyond

After finishing the Master of Engineering Management Program (MEMP) at Duke in
2009, Fulbright Scholar Ali Habib headed home to Karachi with aspirations of
finding a way to bridge his technical expertise with his desire to give back
to the people of Pakistan. In the years following his return to Pakistan he
has been able to do exactly that. As the Director of Informatics at
Interactive Research and Development (IRD, irdresearch.org), a non-profit
public health research and service delivery group, Ali has found ways to use
cellular phone technology – a significantly more stable technology in Pakistan
and the developing world than internet – to create efficient ways for health
researchers to collect data and manage patient care.

By using the cellular phone technology that Ali’s group has developed,
researchers are able to collect health data in the field more easily and with
greater accuracy than they could with paper forms. The elimination of human
error and inconsistencies as well as paper documents allows for more efficient
data transfer. Researchers are getting faster, more accurate information and
can enforce validation in a way that they could not with paper forms.

Cellular technology has also proven particularly helpful with patient
screening and treatment tracking for diseases like Tuberculosis (TB). Many
patients that are diagnosed with TB require somewhere between six and eighteen
months of treatment. The treatments often involve several separate healthcare
providers given that many of those infected are moving around and do not have
a consistent healthcare provider. Ali’s company has created a way to
centralize patient files via cellular phone so that a network of healthcare
providers can clearly understand a patient’s treatment history.

Thanks in large part to Ali and his IT team, Interactive Research and
Development has been incredibly successful in leveraging cellular phone
technology not only in Pakistan, but in other parts of the developing world as
well. They try to use open source software and technology whenever possible to
ensure that developing countries can access and use their research and records
tools. According to Ali the thinking behind that effort is that, “if they
can’t pay for medicine, they obviously can’t pay for software licenses.” These
global efforts have been widely recognized and have earned Interactive
Research and Development significant funding from organizations like the Stop
TB Partnership, but they want to be able to fund even more advancements and
access for these tools. Under Ali’s lead, the IT sector has recently spun off
into a for profit company, Interactive Health Solutions, in order to help fund
even more research in the non-profit sector. Ali has transitioned from
Director of Informatics to CEO and hopes to continue using cellular technology
to improve health outcomes in the developing world.

Ali considers himself to be very fortunate to have found such a happy balance
between technology and human interest, “I never thought I would be writing
code to improve health. I have been very lucky.” And we consider ourselves
very lucky to be able to call this remarkable innovator a Duke MEMP alumnus.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

