

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Vivek Wadhwa Named Executive-in-Residence at Duke Engineering Management
Program

August 26, 2005

Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering has appointed technology
entrepreneur Vivek Wadhwa as executive-in-residence in the Master of
Engineering Management program. Wadhwa will serve as a mentor to students in
the program and assist faculty interested in commercializing technology
developed at Duke.

Wadhwa is the founder and ex-CEO of Relativity Technologies in Raleigh, NC. He
co-founded Seer Technologies in Cary, NC, in 1990. From 1986 to 1990, he was
vice president of information services at Credit Suisse First Boston in New
York.

Wadhwa is a regular columnist for BusinessWeek Online and has been frequently
profiled in major media outlets. He was founding president of TiE Carolinas,
an entrepreneurial networking and mentoring group, and has advised dozens of
business executives.

"Providing students access to a seasoned, successful international
entrepreneur such as Vivek Wadhwa is one of the most powerful teaching
resources we can offer," said Jeff Glass, director of the Master of
Engineering Management (MEM) Program. "His participation will strengthen the
industry relevance of our program and enable students to explore different
career options through one-on-one mentorship, seminars and workshops."

Glass said Wadhwa will advise faculty interested in commercializing technology
developed at Duke. Glass said he hopes to engage Wadhwa in campus
entrepreneurial activities such as the Duke Startup Challenge and TechEval.
Wadhwa will also assist in establishing a corporate advisory board of top
industry leaders for the MEM program.

"I am really excited about the opportunity to give back to the community by
helping teach and mentor the next generation of industry leaders," Wadhwa
said. "Duke University's engineering school is researching an amazing set of
technologies, and some of these may do a lot of good for the world. The MEM
program is very unique in the way it provides real-world management training
for technologists. I look forward to contributing to these initiatives."

* * *

The MEM program combines a core management curriculum with a masters-level
technical education and an engineering internship. Program courses include
business law, finance, marketing and management courses, with an emphasis on
technology management, innovation management and entrepreneurship. For more
information about MEM, visit its website.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

