

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# A New Emphasis on Design for Biomedical Engineers

May 31, 2018 | By Cassandra Ingram

BME Design Fellows Program helps prepare undergraduates for industry careers

After 20 years at Duke Engineering, Mark Palmeri has seen a lot of students
graduate—and while many of them go on to graduate, medical or professional
school, even more decide to seek a career in the biomedical industry.

Now an associate professor of the practice of biomedical engineering, Palmeri
wants to make sure the BME program is preparing students well for those
careers. And with a bachelor's degree (2000) and PhD (2005) in biomedical
engineering from Duke, and an MD (2007) from the school to boot, he's just the
man for the job.

Palmeri has developed a BME Design Fellows Program that is designed to be the
industry-focused equivalent to the Pratt Research Fellows program. The program
is three semesters long and includes a summer internship experience.

BME students apply in fall of their junior year, and, if selected, will enroll
in an industry-skills building course the following spring. This course is
designed to teach students techniques that they will use during their summer
internships. The program then sets fellows up in either a hospital or industry
internship in the Triangle area. Throughout the summer, students meet with the
other fellows to discuss their experiences so that they can reflect and learn
from others as they work through their first internship. Finally, in their
senior year, the fellows take a two-semester design sequence.

"We have received great feedback so far and there seems to be a lot of
excitement," said Palmeri, noting that this year over 30 juniors applied to
the program and 18 were accepted. "This is twice the number we had originally
intended, but we wanted to expand the program because people were so
interested."

Palmeri is currently in the process of setting up internships for the
participants, saying, "The trajectory of Duke BME students after graduation is
shifting from medical school and research careers to industry. To help these
students be better prepared for these pursuits, we're creating a more
dedicated tract for them in the curriculum." Palmeri's hope is that with this
program, BME students interested in going into industry will be able to learn
skills and techniques in class that they will later use in their industry
position and will therefore feel more capable and qualified as they join the
workforce.

Palmeri's new program seeks to provide interested and curious students with
the opportunity to use their time in college to figure out what they want to
use their degree for. By giving students an opportunity to take industry-
focused classes, this program will help students become more prepared and
confident to join the workforce.

Although Duke's career center provides students with resources to search for
internships and prepare for interviews, it can still be a daunting experience
for students seeking summer internships. Every student goes through the
process independently, not necessarily knowing what the most important
information from their classes is when it comes to the job search. Then, when
students are at their first internship, they are apart from their Duke
friends.

A program though Duke such as the BME Design Fellows program gives students
the opportunity to go through this process with their peers and gives them a
chance to reflect on their experiences and learn from others, so they can be
better prepared for future jobs.

By giving students more opportunities through their coursework to focus on
preparing for their industry positions, the BME Design Fellows Program seeks
to help them feel more prepared for life in industry and equip them for a
successful move into the workforce after their four years at Duke.

**Cassandra Ingram is a Pratt sophomore pursuing a double major in biomedical
engineering and electrical and computer engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

