

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# The Duke Master of Engineering Management Alumni Network

Alumni are Duke MEM's greatest ambassadors

Every Duke Master of Engineering Management graduate can play an important
role in the program's life and those of its students.

Alumni are our greatest ambassadors. Alumni participation is important to the
growth and direction of the Duke MEM Program.

Stay in touch

## 8 Ways to Stay Connected to Duke

### 1\. Connect With Duke MEM on Social Media

  * Join our alumni-only group on LinkedIn
  * Like us on Facebook

### 2\. Use Your Duke Alumni Resources

Keep your record at alumni.duke.edu up to date, and join the Pratt School of
Engineering virtual alumni group

### 3\. Speak at a Duke MEM Seminar

You remember the great presenters you heard as a student. Now is your chance
to be that great presenter. You're invited to share your experience and
expertise with today's Duke MEM students. Contact Duke MEM »

### 4\. Recommend Duke MEM

When you meet promising leaders who could benefit from what Duke's Master of
Engineering Management provides, please share your personal experience and the
email address of the Duke MEM Admissions team: **pratt_masters@duke.edu**

### 5\. Think of Duke MEM When You're Hiring

Let us know when you know of internship and employment opportunities. Consider
how your firm could partner with Duke MEM—whether through practicums,
fellowships or seminars. To get started, reach out to our Industry Relations
team.

### 6\. Talk With Current Students

Our current students benefit from talking with alumni. Let us know if you're
interested in being contacted for an informational interview. We'll work to
match you with current students interested in your field or research area.
Contact Duke MEM »

### 7\. Organize an MEM Alumni Event

Let's all stay in touch. If you'd like to arrange a virtual chat or in-person
alumni event, Duke MEM can help promote your event among interested alumni.
Contact Duke MEM »

### 8\. Read the Quarterly Alumni Update

This email publication contains the latest news from Duke MEM, including
showcases of what alumni are doing now and upcoming events. Make sure Duke has
your correct email address by updating your alumni record at alumni.duke.edu.

## Highlights

October 22, 2019 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### A Decade of Building Careers and Connections

Celebrating its 10th anniversary, Duke’s Master of Engineering Management
Online Program provides a rare combination of business, law and engineering
education both online and on campus

August 06, 2018

### Duke Engineering Management Students and Alumni Talk Data Science at
Silicon Valley Meet-Up

Duke Master of Engineering Management students and alumni gathered at Uber
world headquarters in San Francisco for dinner, conversation, and
presentations on novel data science challenges.

February 05, 2018

### Two Decades of Growth: The Master of Engineering Management Program Turns
20

MEMP continues to evolve to meet student, industry needs

* * *

**Founding Member**

Duke is a founding member of MEMPC—a small group of highly recognized,
graduate-level programs in engineering management.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

