

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# News

February 02, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Making Real Impact: Duke Engineering Professional Master's Graduates

Duke Engineering's December 2022 professional master's graduates are prepared
for careers of deep meaning and broad impact

October 22, 2019 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### A Decade of Building Careers and Connections

Celebrating its 10th anniversary, Duke’s Master of Engineering Management
Online Program provides a rare combination of business, law and engineering
education both online and on campus

June 10, 2019 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Glass Named Senior Associate Dean for Education & Learning Innovation at
Duke Engineering

Glass will work to advance the school’s educational mission and enhance the
student experience by providing coordinated oversight and strategic direction
for its broad suite of undergraduate and master’s programs

October 02, 2018

### The Rise of the Master of Engineering Management Degree

Jeffrey Glass, director of Duke University’s Master of Engineering Management
Program and professor of ECE, believes any engineer could benefit from the
degree

August 06, 2018

### Duke Engineering Management Students and Alumni Talk Data Science at
Silicon Valley Meet-Up

Duke Master of Engineering Management students and alumni gathered at Uber
world headquarters in San Francisco for dinner, conversation, and
presentations on novel data science challenges.

February 05, 2018

### Two Decades of Growth: The Master of Engineering Management Program Turns
20

MEMP continues to evolve to meet student, industry needs

November 14, 2017 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### A Warm Welcome for International Students Arriving on Campus

Although they have different needs, both undergraduate and graduate students
receive support to transition from their home countries to their lives as Duke
students

September 27, 2017 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Duke Made It Easy to Find My Passion

Anagha Suchitra, MEM'17, has made the most of career-building
opportunities—including interning with Consumer Reports in New York City and
winning the 2017 Intuit Product Management Case Competition

May 11, 2017

### Duke MEMP Team Takes on Supply Chain Finance Academy Global Student
Challenge

A team of Duke MEMP students (Fajar Prihantoro, Nattakarn Tientrakul, Ping Yao
Goh, and Sachin Londhe) took part in the Global Student Challenge powered by
Supply Chain Finance Academy.

May 09, 2017

### Duke MEMP Team in APICS/TFC Global Student Final

A team of Duke MEMP students participated in the APICS/TFC Global Student
Final in Washington, DC in September 2016 after winning the regional level.

May 03, 2017

### MEMP Alumna Cornejo Honored With Forever Duke Student Leadership Award

The award recognizes graduating students across Duke's undergraduate,
graduate, and professional schools who have exhibited extraordinary leadership
during their time at Duke.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Announcements

### 2023 Application Info

  * Join mailing list
  * Application requirements
  * Attend an online event
  * Contact Admissions

Apply Now

## Events

Apr 17

### Career Coach Online Office Hours for Engineering Master's Students

11:00 am to 12:30 pm Online

Presenter: Career Services and Professional Development

Add to calendar __

Apr 18

### Career Coach Online Office Hours for Engineering Master's Students

11:00 am to 12:30 pm Online

Presenter: Career Services and Professional Development

Add to calendar __

Apr 19

### Career Coach Online Office Hours for Engineering Master's Students

11:00 am to 12:30 pm Online

Presenter: Career Services and Professional Development

Add to calendar __

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

