

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# News

February 02, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Making Real Impact: Duke Engineering Professional Master's Graduates

Duke Engineering's December 2022 professional master's graduates are prepared
for careers of deep meaning and broad impact

November 11, 2021 | **_Duke MEM Creative Communications Club_**

### New Student Podcast: MEMtalks@Duke

The podcast series features conversations with stakeholders within the Duke
Master of Engineering Management community.

October 08, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### ‘Intelligent Classroom’ Apps Use AI to Improve Teaching & Learning in
Real-Time

Duke-developed machine-learning tools show promise of focused, personalized
instruction—regardless of how many students are being taught

September 15, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Engineering for Impact: Meet Duke Engineering’s Next Dean

Jerome Lynch shares his perspectives on Duke Engineering, initial priorities
as dean, and vision for the transformative role engineers can play in society

September 02, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Jerome Lynch Named New Dean of Pratt School of Engineering

University of Michigan chair is nationally known for developing smart
technologies to improve civil infrastructure systems

July 20, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Morales Named Executive Director of Duke’s Master of Engineering
Management Program

An executive-in-residence with the program since 2017, Morales wants to
deliver a transformative student experience underpinned by the program’s
“Professionalism and Five Principles"

April 29, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Engineering Management Grad Introduces Readers to 'Wonder Women of
Science'

Meet Tiera Fletcher—2021 online Duke Master of Engineering Management
graduate, Boeing aerospace engineer and author of a new book about women
breaking barriers

April 27, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Duke Engineering Launches Institute for Enterprise Engineering

New organization will increase opportunities for professional education,
industry partnerships focused on applying technological innovation to
enterprises

March 03, 2021 | **_Duke Today_**

### Amid a Pandemic, New and Renovated Buildings Open

Mitchell Vann, the director of Facilities for the Pratt School of Engineering,
knows that the Duke community will find a lot to be proud of in the Wilkinson
Building.

February 10, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Walker Appointed to North Carolina Board of Science, Technology and
Innovation

Appointed by Governor Cooper, Bill Walker will bring a experience from both
industry and academia to the board focused on accelerating technology
companies

February 04, 2021

### Duke MEM Online Ranked No. 2 Online Graduate Program for Engineering
Management

U.S. News has ranked Duke MEM Online as the No. 2 online graduate program in
engineering management in the nation.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Announcements

### 2023 Application Info

  * Join mailing list
  * Application requirements
  * Attend an online event
  * Contact Admissions

Apply Now

## Events

Apr 17

### Career Coach Online Office Hours for Engineering Master's Students

11:00 am to 12:30 pm Online

Presenter: Career Services and Professional Development

Add to calendar __

Apr 18

### Career Coach Online Office Hours for Engineering Master's Students

11:00 am to 12:30 pm Online

Presenter: Career Services and Professional Development

Add to calendar __

Apr 19

### Career Coach Online Office Hours for Engineering Master's Students

11:00 am to 12:30 pm Online

Presenter: Career Services and Professional Development

Add to calendar __

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

