

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# The Duke Difference: Engineering Management

## What is Engineering Management?

Engineers and scientists with business training have an advantage.

Engineering Management integrates technical skills with business training to
create the well-equipped leaders that organizations need to solve complex
problems. Duke University is a premier provider of engineering management
education.  

Duke's Engineering Management program is four graduate technical courses you
choose, proven business and management courses for tech leaders, and an
internship. This master's degree can be completed in one year.

  * Compare to MBA, MS or PhD »
  * Explore the curriculum »

## Duke is for you, if you are:

  * A person with a science or engineering background
  * Interested in gaining new business, product management, and
    entrepreneurial skills
  * Focused on a leadership career

## Duke Engineering Management: Flexible and Customizable

Customize your degree to match your career goals

Duke offers elective tracks aimed at in-demand skill sets:

  * Customer Experience and Product Design
  * Data Analytics and Machine Learning
  * Operations and Supply Chain Management
  * Product Management
  * Technology Development
  * Commercialization and Entrepreneurship
  * Or, build your elective track

Browse course descriptions »

## Faculty with Deep Experience

The Duke Engineering Management faculty includes executives-in-residence and
instructors from Duke's highly-regarded professional schools of engineering,
law and business.

Meet our faculty and staff »

## Great Outcomes for Duke Graduates

Nearly 9 out of 10 graduates are at work or onto further education within six
months of graduation

Duke Engineering management students have access to dedicated services and
support—including career services and professional development. Our Master of
Engineering Management grads make up a global alumni network spanning
multinational companies, small businesses and exciting startups.

Browse graduate outcomes data »

## A Great Location, plus Online Options

Duke is in a vibrant, growing region known for innovation

Our Duke MEM Campus students live and study in North Carolina's Research
Triangle Region:

  * Consistently ranked among the best places to live in the United States
  * Home to Research Triangle Park, which hosts more than 140 major high-tech
    companies
  * A cost of living far less than in New York City, Boston or California

We also offer Duke MEM Online. Through innovative and immersive virtual
learning, our online students:

  * Learn from the same faculty and earn the same degree as on-campus students
  * Come to Duke three times for week-long, in-person residencies
  * Build strong professional relationships with peers and Duke faculty

More about Duke & Durham, NC »

## How Engineering Management Compares

Duke Master of Engineering Management (MEM)

Master of Business Administration (MBA)

Master of Science (MS) or PhD  
  
Curriculum

Technical electives _and courses in_ :

  * Marketing
  * Management
  * Finance
  * Law

P _lus a_ seminar series and an internship

Economics, marketing, accounting, finance, human resources, and international
business

Technical courses, plus research; traditionally a thesis paper or major
research project  
  
Undergraduate Education

_Any_ engineering or science degree

Depending on the program

Matched to a _specific_ discipline  
  
Duration

  * On-Campus— **1 year**
  * Online—2 years

Traditionally, 2 years

Depending on the program  
  
Work Experience

Designed for the earliest career stage—usually _fewer_ than five years'
experience

Years of work experience required

Depending on the program  
  
Student Career Goals

Leadership in a technology-focused organization

Management

Research career  
  
## Duke is a leader in creating educational programs in emerging fields

The Duke Master of Engineering Management program is a part of Duke
Engineering's **Institute for Enterprise Engineering** , which provides high-
impact professional education to meet fast-evolving industry needs. These
programs draw on Duke Engineering’s research and educational strengths in:

    * Computing Fundamentals
    * AI and Machine Learning
    * Cybersecurity
    * FinTech, including Blockchain
    * Engineering Management

Learning opportunities are offered online and on-campus and include degree
programs, graduate certificates, online credentials and short courses.

We give working professionals and industry partners powerful tools to improve
organizational performance and accelerate product innovation.

More about Duke Engineering's Institute for Enterprise Engineering »

* * *

**Founding Member**

Duke is a founding member of MEMPC—a small group of highly recognized,
graduate-level programs in engineering management.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

