

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate » For Current Grad Students

# Graduate Student Groups

Expand your Duke experience through a student-focused organization

Duke Engineering expands opportunities for master's and PhD students with
engagement in distinctive organizations which build community and encourage
students to develop interpersonal, leadership and professional skills.

## Professional Development

### iMED: Innovative Medicine

A student group, sponsored by Duke MEDx, which brings together graduate
students and faculty from across various Duke who share an interest in
entrepreneurship and medicine.

iMED provides a safe, collaborative environment where people from diverse
graduate experiences and backgrounds can share, mentor, and learn from one
another to tackle domestic and global health care problems.

Learn more and join iMED »

### PhD Plus Program

Deepens the value of doctoral study with a year-round program for all
engineering PhD students, designed for high-impact professional development.

  * Summer workshops
  * Innovative personal and professional development seminars
  * Career networking opportunities

Join: phdplus.pratt.duke.edu »

## Graduate Student Leadership

### Engineering Graduate Student Council (EGSC)

Represents all engineering master's and PhD students, and welcomes new
students into the Duke Engineering community.

  * Friday afternoon "Pratt Chat" socials
  * Service outreach activities, such as Habitat for Humanity
  * Annual _Envisioning The Invisible_ image contest
  * sites.duke.edu/egsc

### Engineering Master’s Student Council (EMSC)

A leadership team of student leaders from our various engineering master’s
programs. The team adds to the master’s student experience by providing
academic, networking, social, and professional development opportunities.

  * Engineering Master’s Student Council webpages

### Graduate and Professional Student Government

Advocates for all Duke graduate and professional students, and builds
community. All Duke graduate and professional students are automatic members.

  * gpsg.duke.edu

### Biomedical Engineering Association of Master's Students (BEAMS)

A master's student-led group that encourages interaction among students,
faculty and alumni.

  * Organizes social events
  * Schedules one-on-one professional preparation experiences, such as
    mentoring
  * facebook.com/groups/dukebeams

### Biomedical Engineering PhD Student Association (BEPSA)

Gives a voice to the BME PhD student body, by facilitating communication among
students and faculty

  * Connects students to department resources
  * Advocates for the department, within and outside the Duke
  * sites.duke.edu/bepsa

### Civil & Environmental Engineering Students Advocating for Graduate
Education (SAGE)

Represent the CEE graduate student body by working with staff and faculty to
improve academics, working conditions, and the social environment.

  * cee.duke.edu/sage

### Electrical & Computer Engineering Advocacy for Student Engagement (EASE)

A graduate student-led group that strives towards building a community through
social, well-being, outreach and academic events. EASE organizes events like a
winter social, papers and pastries, and interdepartmental mixers.

  * facebook.com/groups/DukeEASE
  * Duke EASE home

### Master of Engineering Management Program Development Committee (MEM PDC)

A student-led committee dedicated to working with and strengthening Master of
Engineering Management student activities, programs, and events.

  * Oversees professional and activity club memberships open to all MEM
    students
  * Sponsors events and provides information to help new students sign-up for
    clubs

### Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Graduate Student Committee

Works with the director of graduate studies to recruit, educate and promote
the graduate students within the Department of Mechanical Engineering &
Materials Science.

  * Organizes a graduate seminar series and annual retreat
  * Programs social hours and special service projects and social events
  * mems.duke.edu/grad-comm

## Professional Student Organizations

### Association for Women in Science (AWIS)

Free memberships for students

Duke is an institutional member of the Association for Women in Science and
individual memberships are free for Duke students, staff and faculty.

AWIS advocates for gender equity and the advancement of women in STEM fields,
and offers professional development, networking, mentorship, and leadership
opportunities.

Become a member of AWIS »

### Bouchet Society

Further strengthens the efforts of underrepresented minority graduate students
in achieving their career goals in science research and education, and
encourages values that promote diversity and inclusion in the sciences in
honor of its namesake—Dr. Edward Alexander Bouchet, the first African-American
to earn a PhD from an American university.

  * sites.duke.edu/bouchetsociety

### Black Graduate & Professional Student Association (BGPSA)

Enhances the Duke experience for black graduate and professional students
through social events, multicultural programming, career and community
service, and scholarship.

  * sites.duke.edu/bgpsa

### Duke Interdisciplinary Social Innovators (DISI)

Convenes interdisciplinary graduate student teams that provide _pro bono_
consulting and technology services to social organizations in our hometown of
Durham, North Carolina, and beyond.

  * disiduke.org

### Oceans @ Duke Student Club

An interdisciplinary student club that fosters collaboration to examine
opportunities for professional development in oceans-related careers and areas
of study.

  * sites.duke.edu/oceansatduke

### Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (oSTEM)

The Duke chapter of oSTEM is a LGBTQ+ affirming organization that aims to
provide services and support for students in science, technology, engineering,
and mathematics and to create a dynamic network between students and
professionals in industry and academia.

  * duke@chapters.ostem.org

### Women in Science and Engineering (WISE)

A network of women graduate students and post-doctoral associates working to
improve the climate for women in science. Serves as a liaison between women
science and engineering students and administration.

  * sites.duke.edu/wise

## Engineering Society Chapters

### American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE)

Dedicated to setting a course for both the Society and the profession within
and beyond the 21st century. The Duke Chapter of ASCE participates in its
iconic annual concrete canoe competition.

### American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME)

A 120,000-member professional organization focused on technical, educational
and research issues. The Duke section of ASME was chartered in 1935.

### Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES)

Dedicated to promoting the increase of biomedical engineering knowledge and
its utilization.  

### Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)

Dedicated to advancing the theory and practice of electrical engineering,
electronics, radio and the allied branches of engineering, and the related
arts and sciences. Duke's IEEE Student Branch is open to any student who
shares IEEE's interests.

### Materials Research Society

An organization of materials researchers that promotes communication for the
advancement of interdisciplinary materials research to improve the quality of
life. Duke's MRS student chapter is open to any student with an interest in
materials science or engineering.

### National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)

NSBE's mission is to increase the number of culturally responsible Black
engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally and positively impact
the community. The Duke Society of Black Engineers focuses on increasing the
number of successful minority engineers at Duke and to growing a network of
students and alumni in the Research Triangle region.

### Optical Society of America

Organized to increase and diffuse the knowledge of optics, pure and applied;
to promote the common interests of investigators of optical problems, of
designers and of users of optical apparatus of all kinds; and to encourage
cooperation among them.

### Society of Women Engineers (SWE)

A not-for-profit educational and service organization that reinforces
engineering as a highly desirable career aspiration for women. Duke SWE
empowers women to succeed and to be recognized for theircontributions and
achievements as engineers and leaders. _  
_

### SPIE

This international society for optics and photonics advances emerging
technologies through interdisciplinary information exchange, continuing
education, publications, patent precedent, and career and professional growth.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

