

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Podcast

# End Transmission

August 30, 2019

Duke professor David Katz works at the intersection of biomedical engineering
and reproductive health. His research informs efforts to prevent the
transmission of sexually transmitted diseases—most notably human
immunodeficiency virus, or HIV.

## Listen

## Transcript

Michaela Kane: You're listening to a new episode of Rate of Change, a podcast
from Duke University's Pratt School of engineering, that takes a fresh look at
some of the ingenious ways engineers are tackling some of society's toughest
problems. I'm your host, Michaela Kane. Most people begin to learn about
reproductive health during sex education classes in high school where the
topic is typically framed around puberty and pregnancy. In reality, the field
of reproductive health is incredibly varied, spanning subjects like
infertility, contraception, cancer screening and prevention, and today's
topic, which is STDs, more specifically, human immunodeficiency virus or HIV.

Dr. Katz: I have broad interests in reproductive biology. I guess one could
say that I'm interested in a spectrum of ways in which we, biomedical
engineers, can contribute.

Dr. Katz: These span a lot of different processes and phenomena, reproductive
health, having to do with fertility, contraception in fertility, and
toxicology of the reproductive system... They have to do with cervical cancer
and how we diagnose and treat it.

Michaela Kane: Although he spent decades working in the fields of biomedical
engineering and reproductive health, it wasn't always his intention to go into
BME. Instead, his sights were set a bit further from home, more than 200,000
miles away, to be exact. During his time as a mechanical engineering student
at Berkeley, Katz worked in aerospace related problems for NASA, specifically
topics that had to do with the lunar surface.

Dr. Katz: After a couple of years of intense study in applied physics, and
applied math, and engineering, I grew restless and really wanted to do
something that I felt was more meaningful to humans. It wasn't that I had
anything against the space program. I just wanted a more human element in what
I was doing. The lunar surface was rather barren.

Michaela Kane: As a student at Berkeley in the '70s, Katz crossed paths with
researchers who were working in the then young field of biomedical
engineering, including one researcher who was studying how to apply fluid
mechanics to the reproductive system.

Dr. Katz: He had done a sabbatical in England and was studying the
reproductive system, which has objects that swim in it called sperm. He was
interested in this from a fluid mechanical point of view in terms of how that
works, swimming in general. I thought, "Well, my skillset seems to match the
need here." Others had worked on it primarily in the UK, but there were some
real needs to expand it to make it more realistic biologically. That's what
attracted me, and in particular, not just the biological relevance of this,
but the biomedical relevance of this. Could we use this information to do a
better job of diagnosing and treating disease in human health? I gave up my
fellowship from NASA and started taking courses in the life sciences.

Michaela Kane: Katz ended up creating a thesis that showed a mathematical
model about how sperm swim to an egg, giving researchers a theoretical
perspective about reproduction that hadn't really existed at the time.

Dr. Katz: It was good science, but it was all theoretical. I really wanted to
learn more about reproductive biology and medicine. Some of that work involved
targeting sperm with molecules to kill them or disable them. Spermicides...
There's spermicide-like molecules.

Michaela Kane: While he was investigating these new avenues in reproductive
health, a new disease was beginning to make headlines in L.A., New York, and
San Francisco.

Dr. Katz: The HIV virus was starting to take its toll in the United States in
creating this nasty disease, AIDS. I was aware of this because I was in the
Bay Area. I was very much informed about this awful disease and the fact that
it was created by a virus. At the time, there wasn't interest in the U.S.
government in this. It took a long time for the government to acknowledge and
wake up to the fact that there was... This disease was going to be epidemic
and have a devastating effect.

Michaela Kane: In July of 1981, Lawrence K. Altman wrote an article for the
New York Times titled, Rare Cancer Seen in 41 Homosexuals, that described how
gay men were dying of an unusual disease called **Kaposi sarcoma** , a cancer
that caused purple spots and bruises to appear on their skin. By 1982, it was
discovered that people with hemophilia were also showing symptoms of the
disease. That same year, the CDC began using the term AIDS, or acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome, to describe the disease. By 1984, researchers
announced that they discovered that a retrovirus was causing AIDS, calling it
HTLV-3, later changing the name to HIV. Although this discovery made it easier
to create a more accurate diagnostic test for the disease, it didn't lead to a
vaccine or immediate treatment as some researchers had hoped.

Michaela Kane: Why is HIV so hard to, not necessarily even treat, but it just
is a difficult virus to work with?

Dr. Katz: The infection by HIV is very challenging for a number of reasons.
The virus is such that you can literally get infected by HIV by a single
virion. That's what a single HIV virus is called, a virion. It only takes one.
We know this from a variety of studies, some of which were informed by work at
Duke, having to do with essentially the genetics of HIV. To prevent infection,
you're dealing with a virus that... They're not a lot of virions that are
introduced into the body. Because it only takes one, the way you deal with
prevention is a little different than if you're just... In a lot of infections
in the body, we know that if we reduce the size of the inoculum of the
pathogen, a certain amount, the likelihood of infection is going to go down.

Dr. Katz: In the case of HIV, the math is a little different. That's
particularly challenging in terms of how forgiving various methods of
prevention can be to just differences in people's bodies and their
susceptibility to infection, how many virions are introduced. Secondly,
another factor is that the HIV virus is... We read about this a lot. It's
sneaky. It will infect you and then it'll sort of disappear for a while,
difficult to detect.

Dr. Katz: You may be infected but you may not have... When you're first
infected by HIV, the numbers of virions, the viral load as it's called, that
are in your body fluids, go up. Then soon thereafter, they go down. They can
remain dormant for a long time. For people who have been infected but didn't
get tested early on, they may not know they're infected. This can go on for
months, even years. That's another reason why this is such a perplexing virus.
We think about HIV almost like trench warfare in the First World War. It goes
in. It hunkers down. You try to disable it but you can't get to it. You can't
find it. It's in these hidden reservoirs.

Michaela Kane: "This hunkering down," as Dr. Katz says, "Is called the latent
HIV infection," which occurs when a group of immune cells in the body are
infected with HIV but are not actively producing new virions. This allows the
virus to hide themselves for years, which makes it hard to clear out of the
system. It wasn't until 1987 when the first medication for AIDS, called AZT,
was approved for use. AZT didn't remove the virus from the body but instead,
slow its progression by prolonging this latent stage.

Dr. Katz: When HIV was discovered... It was a retrovirus. People started
thinking, "Well I can create a drug or I can find a drug that works against
this retrovirus by attaching to the cells that the virus infects." They found
an early... It's called antiretroviral drug. They gave it to people who had
been infected. Guess what? They started getting better. Their viral loads went
down. This was great. There was this feeling of euphoria for a couple of
months. Then they got sick again or their viral loads went up. The reason was
that the virus was mutating.

Dr. Katz: This drug alone was not sufficient. Then they said, "Well, let's put
a different kind of drug in at the same time and see how that works." They did
that. Guess what? The people stayed... The viral loads went down for a longer
period of time, but then they came back. Finally, when they put a third drug
in, they discovered that they could start to treat the disease through the
combined effects of these three different drugs.

Michaela Kane: The spread of and subsequent health response to the AIDS
epidemic caused Katz, then a faculty member at UC Davis, to explore how his
research could be used to potentially help prevent the transmission of HIV and
other sexually transmitted diseases.

Dr. Katz: The connection was that sexually transmitted HIV causes infection in
the same environment where sperm move. I knew a great deal about that
environment by then, its physiology, its anatomy, its endocrinology. I also
knew quite a bit about sticking molecules in there to make things better or
worse. That is to say, for contraception, or to treat infertility, a lot of
maneuvers. It was quite natural to begin to imagine how I could contribute to
understanding various modalities for preventing infection by sexually
transmitted HIV.

Dr. Katz: That marked my transition to becoming interested in HIV. I moved to
Duke from Davis in... at Christmas time in 1993. When I came here, Duke was
already becoming interested in the immunology of HIV. I started changing the
emphasis of what I was doing more towards sexually transmitted infections like
HIV.

Michaela Kane: It's been nearly 40 years since AIDS and HIV first broke into
the public consciousness. While the disease is no longer a death sentence,
there is still no true cure. In fact, as of this recording, only two men have
ever been functionally cured of HIV after receiving a bone marrow transplant
as a treatment for leukemia. While bone marrow transplants are not likely to
be a cure for the disease, people who are at risk of contracting HIV can take
Pre-exposure prophylaxis, also known as PrEP, to reduce the likelihood of
contracting HIV. These are notable successes in the fight against HIV, but the
virus's biology hasn't been the only roadblock in the pursuit of a cure.

Dr. Katz: There are massive behavioral, social, societal factors, stigmas,
prejudices, and so on that underlie addressing the AIDS pandemic. These have
been a big constraint because it originally developed in men who have sex with
men. It's much, much, much more ubiquitous than that. The stigma associated
with that that was prevalent in this country in the '80s and in the minds of
our government have remained a constraint in our treatment of the disease.
This is a social, a behavioral, as well as a biological challenge to us as a
disease.

Dr. Katz: Most diseases aren't like that. You get polio. No one is going to
dispute the fact. "Oh, we need to treat polio because all our kids are getting
it," which they were in the '50s until Jonas Salk made his vaccine. Remember,
HIV infection is not AIDS. AIDS develops from HIV infection over time. This is
really beset with all these challenges, all these stigmas, all these
prejudices, which play out very differently across this planet. It's different
in Sub-Saharan Africa than it is in India, than it is in the Middle East, than
it is in China, than it is in South America, than it is in the United States,
it is in Scandinavia. Societal mores, and practices, and behaviors are... They
vary. The common theme and across these, however, is sexism. That's the theme
that is common to all of the above. Really, what I do is very deliberately
intended to empower women with control of their bodies in terms of
susceptibility to infection and contraception, for that matter.

Michaela Kane: While condoms can be a reliable tool to help prevent HIV and
other sexually transmitted diseases, they are only useful if a man agrees to
wear one. Instead, researchers like Dr. Katz are investigating how to create
tools that women, who make up more than 20% of new HIV cases, can control on
their own.

Dr. Katz: One characteristic that's been central to my work for a while now is
the integration of... I'll call them biological and pharmacological processes
involved in creating something that will work if somebody uses it. For
example, one of the things that I've been working on recently are intravaginal
rings. We have an intravaginal ring that delivers contraceptive hormones.
NuvaRing... They're new contraceptive rings in development.

Dr. Katz: We have evidence that these have a epidemiologic niche in the menu
of options that women need for... whether it's for contraception or for
prevention of sexually transmitted infections. I'm interested in, and this is
collaborative work, in delivering different drugs and intravaginal rings to
prevent infection by HIV. Concomitantly, I, of necessity, have to understand,
are we designing rings and products in general that women will use?

Dr. Katz: I worked with behavioral scientists on this for a number of years
now. Over 10 years now, I've worked with a psychologist at Brown University
named Kate Guthrie. Her earlier name was Kate Morrow. She's a behavioral
scientist. She works on people's sensory perceptions, and experiences, and
preferences for things that they put on or in their bodies. We've done a lot
of work together in the HIV field, having to do with delivering products that
apply molecules that we call microbicides to the body. All kinds of
products... rings, gels, films, suppositories. What we've done is to try to
understand how the properties of these products and the dosage requirements
for them, how frequently you have to apply them, or keep them in, or et
cetera, are perceived and accepted by users.

Michaela Kane: An example of this work involves the first microbicide that
went to efficacy testing. This gel contained a drug called Tenofovir, which is
used to treat HIV. In the first study with this gel, researchers found that it
could reduce the chances of contracting HIV during sex if used correctly.

Dr. Katz: They did two follow-up studies. It didn't work. They discovered that
the reason why it didn't work was that women weren't using it as directed
because it was messy. To me, this was just evidence that you've got to design
something that people will use. You've also got to understand how to design a
gel that people will use. That's where my engineering came in. A very simple
example was this Tenofovir gel was too runny. The volume was too high. It was
very messy. In the light of what we learned from the Tenofovir gel trials and
their successes and their failures, we clearly needed to emphasize user
acceptability in designing products, and that led us to a renewed emphasis on
intravaginal rings as devices for delivering anti-HIV drugs. And the good news
is that there is a ring that delivers a different drug from Tenofovir that’s
called Dapiverine that has been successful in several clinical trials for
reducing infection by sexually transmitted HIV, and this is well along in the
path to approval and distribution and commercial distribution worldwide. That
success has really been a stimulus to many of us who work in this field.

Michaela Kane: According to Katz, these rings occupy a unique niche, because
they offer the benefits of more long-lasting protection, like those from
contraceptive injections or implants, but they can also be easily removed.
Now, Dr. Katz and his lab are looking into how they can continue to optimize
the performance of these rings based on behaviors from their users.

Dr. Katz: We want products that have rapidly acting efficacy profiles, and
that if they are removed have a long tail. That’s the term that’s used in
pharmacology for activity after you remove the product. Because behaviorally
we know that not all women will keep a ring in continuously throughout the
month or up to three months of designated use. So we’re trying to raise the
bar in new work that we’re doing on designing intravaginal rings and we’re
very excited about it in the following sense.

Dr. Katz: First of all, we’re using more advanced drugs than Tenofovir that
are much more potent and very long acting. Secondly, we’re building the rings
and this is work that’s done at UNC with my colleague Rahina Bemabor, and
we’re 3D printing these rings for the first time so we can really customize
their shapes and their properties for efficient drug delivery compared to the
injection molding process that’s historically been done. We’re also evaluating
these rings using advanced methods of modeling that we’re doing in my group
and of measurement of transport into tissue that we’re also doing in my group.

Dr. Katz: So we see intravaginal rings as becoming a mainstay and used by
women for contraception, for protection against multiple sexually transmitted
infections and potentially for delivery of drugs for other gynecological
needs.

Michaela Kane: Katz has also been involved in a collaboration with researchers
in Duke BME to help create a highly sensitive diagnostic test for HIV.

David Katz: For a number of years we’ve been interested in sticky molecules
that can attach to the virus, and disable the ability of the virus to infect
cells.

Michaela Kane: One of their targets involves a family of protein molecules
that was originally derived from algae in the ocean. These molecules, called
Lectins, are very sticky, and they can stick to the sugars on the surface of
HIV. The lab has zeroed in on a particular molecule in this family called
Griffithsin, which can efficiently stick to virions and disable them.

Dr. Katz: We were interested as engineers, however, in how to produce this
molecule efficiently and potentially in a more potent version. And that led us
to connect with another faculty member in BME, Michael Lynch in biomedical
engineering, who is a true expert in making boutique molecules in bacteria.
And so we approached Mike about this, and Mike was intrigued about the
possibility, and this became a project in his undergraduate BME design class,
where we did the original work.

Michaela Kane: Initially, the team was interested in using Griffithsin as
protection against HIV, so the Katz lab completed mathematical studies about
how fast acting the molecule could be, and how its activity varied as
different microbicide products.

Dr. Katz: At the same time a lightbulb went off, and I’m not sure when it
first went off, but it involved a very closely related use of this molecule,
and that is not to disable HIV but to detect it. One of the needs that we have
is to have early detection of infection by HIV. As I said earlier one of the
problems is that people don’t’ know they are infected. And most methods for
early detection of HIV require not the detection of the virus itself when it
first appears in a body fluid, but antibodies that are created in response to
it. What we saw, and this is really Mike’s idea and Tosh Chilkoti’s idea in
our department was to use the stickiness of Griffithsin to create an assay
that could detect very small numbers of virions in body fluid, for example in
blood.

Dr. Katz: Very soon after infection, much sooner than is currently possible
with antibodies. So there is a new project that is starting up now, in which
we’re putting our heads together, including Tosh Chilkoti’s real expertise in
developing very sophisticated assays for detection, Mike’s ability to make a
molecule that has properties that we need, and our ability in my group to put
the transport aspects of this together in terms of the kinetics of how quickly
it would work and some of the other design features. So we have a new project
that is starting up now with other investigators in BME, not looking at
prevention per say, but looking at detection, which, if this works, could be a
real game-changer.

Michaela Kane: If you're interested in learning more about Dr. Katz's work,
check out his lab website on his profile on the Pratt website at
pratt.duke.edu. Don't forget to subscribe, and thanks for listening to Rate of
Change, a new podcast from the Pratt School of Engineering.

Subscribe to the _**Rate of Change**_ podcast in Apple Podcasts or Google
Play:

_The Apple logo is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Google Podcasts and the Google Podcasts logo are trademarks of
Google LLC._

## Featured Faculty

### David F. Katz

Nello L. Teer, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, in the
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering

View profile »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

