

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Podcast

# In the Kitchen with NanoMine

November 19, 2020

If discovering and designing next-gen materials is like cooking, Duke engineer
Cate Brinson is writing the materials cookbook.

## Listen

## Transcript

Host: Hello and welcome to Rate of Change a podcast from Duke Engineering
dedicated to the ingenious ways that engineers are solving society's toughest
problems, I'm Elizabeth Witherspoon.

[Sound effects: Start of gas stove]

Top chefs know a pinch of this or a dash of that can make all the difference
between a memorable meal or a bitter disappointment. It takes a lot of trial
and error until just the right combinations come together. The same is also
true when discovering and designing the materials we need to solve complex
problems in medicine, electronics, transportation, and sustainable energy. In
many ways, it is a lot like cooking.

[Sound effect: Music]

Cate Brinson: There’s some really interesting things about polymer
nanocomposites. These are polymers that have tiny amounts of nanoparticles in
them, usually a very small loading, so it's 99.5% polycarbonate and then 0.5%
fairy dust.

[Sound effect: Fairy ping]

Host: This is Cate Brinson, the Alstadt Chair, and a Yoh professor in the
Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke
and an expert in polymer nanocomposites. She is one of the many Duke materials
scientists and engineers working at the forefront of design discovery and
deployment of the materials needed to drive innovation.

Cate Brinson: And the fairy dust can be anything. It can be silica. It can be
titanium. It could be carbon nanotubes. It could be any flavor nanoparticle
you want, right? And that fairy dust can also be chemically modified so it can
have little surface groups on it that cause it to interact differently with
each other and with the polymer that you're putting it in.

Host: Polymer nanocomposites are in important innovations already. They have
replaced metals in many existing inventions because of their lighter weight or
better performance, such as in modern dental fillings that can match the color
of our teeth or parts that make automobiles lighter and more fuel efficient.
They're used in food packaging, biomedicine, and solar energy. And they will
feature prominently in future innovations as a result of the basic materials
science and engineering research Brinson and her colleagues are now doing.

Cate Brinson: You can also make the sample many different ways. You can melt
mix it. You can extrude it. You could hot press it. You could ball mill it.
There's all kinds of things you can do to make a sample. And all of those
things impact the physical properties of this thing that you get out. And by
physical properties I mean mechanical properties, electrical properties,
dielectric properties, conductivity, toughness, strength, diffusion
coefficient, so it's any physical property of the material system, optical
properties, even, could be anything.

[Sound effect: Wooden spoon stirring batter in a bowl. Sound via
https://www.zapsplat.com]

Host: Back to our cooking analogy, think of the role certain ingredients play,
not only in terms of adding flavor, but in the successful outcome of, say,
baking a cake. Only a few teaspoons of baking powder added to the several cups
of flour releases carbon dioxide gas bubbles in the wet batter, causing it to
rise during baking and have that light, airy texture we like so much. Without
it you wind up with a hard, dense, rubbery disappointment. However, besides
the obvious differences between designing polymers and baking a cake is that
we know what to expect when you add baking powder to cake batter, or if you
leave it out. In materials research polymers compared to metals, for example,
are highly unpredictable.

[Sound effect: Alert Bells]

Cate Brinson: Polymers are messy, messy, messy things. They're long-chain and
tangled molecules. They're very disordered. They're moving all the time, and
they interact with each other and with things that are mixed in like
nanoparticles.

[Sound effect: Music]

Host: But don't think for one minute that means Brinson or any of her
materials research colleagues are giving up on this long, tedious effort that
typically takes 20 years from discovery of a new material until it hits the
marketplace.

President Barak Obama: We can do it faster. To help businesses discover,
develop, and deploy new materials twice as fast. We're launching what we call
the Materials Genome Initiative.

Host: In June, 2011, the Materials Genome Initiative, or MGI, began funding
materials scientists and engineers through five federal agencies for steps all
along the pathway of materials research from basic discovery through design
and development to cut this timeframe in half along with the costs. The name
references the Human Genome Project, the international scientific research
project of identifying and mapping all the genes of the human genome from a
physical and functional standpoint. Declared complete in 2003, use of this
widely available resource has ushered in the era of precision medicine and
continues to spur medical innovation.

[Sound effect: Music]

Brinson’s colleagues working with metals and other highly ordered substances
referred to as “hard matter” have and continue to build such resources.

But how are they going to do this with polymers, which are so messy and
unpredictable?

One way is by harnessing the power of artificial intelligence and machine
learning.

Cate Brinson: You want to enable discovery and design. And the traditional
methods to understand materials is experimental, so doing these tedious
experiments, slowly, carefully, one at a time. Or doing some computation,
where there are some limitations and that are forward predictive. But there’s
something profoundly different that we could do by applying machine learning
and data science, if we have a lot of data, and we do have a lot of data. But,
that data is not currently accessible.

For example, if I want to know something about a material, I'll put some
search terms into Google Scholar or Web of Science, and say, "I want to know
the glass transition temperature of silica polystyrene nanocomposites." Very
specific.

But, what do I get out of this search? I get a list of 34,000-plus results.
Many of which are relevant, some of which are irrelevant, but it's just a
list, and the links in that list lead to individual PDF files. And then
usually, through many clicks later, on a single entry, you get to one PDF file
and then you have to read that one PDF file and you have to go extract that
glass transition temperature that you were seeking for that composite or for
the 12 composites that were in that particular paper, and then write that one
number down in your spreadsheet.

And I can't do that for 34,000 items on the list. It's crazy! I should be able
to do a search like this and get all the data on a plot, right? Because if I
could get data on a plot, I could also take that data and if I also know, in
addition to each data point, I also know, oh, for example, how were they made?
What were they composed of? What were the processing conditions? What was the
room temperature? What are all the other variables.

If you know all of these things, then you can start putting machine learning
models and data science to work and start discovering new things. And if you
have all of this data fully accessible, then you can also create a design loop
where you could start to design materials based on this wide swath of data
that we have, but we don't have accessible, that you just can't get it in a
form that you need right now.

So, it's rich, and it's all out there, but it's really only accessible to us
one tiny little piece at a time like breadcrumbs, right? And we want to put
the whole cookie together, we don't want these isolated little crumbs from all
over.

So, we’ve built this platform, a data framework, NanoMine.

[Sound effect: Music]

Host: NanoMine is a platform specifically written for polymer nanocomposites
to make this data readily available to other researchers. This is the goal of
the Materials Genome Initiative – to build and make available the resources
needed to accelerate the discovery, design and development of new materials.
Think of it as the step before the chefs can author their cookbooks of
recipes. It will be the reference guide for the recipe writers that explains
what the different ingredients behave like in various combinations and under
various conditions.

Cate Brinson: We hire undergraduates in the summer to curate data. We're also
trying to promote self-curation and we're working on semi-automated methods of
curation, and that's something I want to work more on, semi-automated
curation.

All right, with that as a backdrop, what do we do with this platform? What do
we put in it? Well, I've always been interested in polymer nanocomposites, and
we and others have done lots of interesting work trying to understand the
properties of these systems, both computationally with simulations, and also
experimentally looking at what's happening physically – creating data that we
can curate into NanoMine.

One of the really important things in these systems is that everything is
interacting. How they interact is still largely unknown. And so, part of what
we explore in the experimental side of our work is to try to understand how
the polymer chains behave differently near particles or away from particles.
Or, what if I have two particles very close together, and that’s actually
different that now the polymer behaves around just a single particle in
isolation. And these experiments you have to do are very difficult, because
you have to do them at the nanoscale. There’s lots of interesting details down
there.

But that also means that when you go to try to understand what the properties
of the bulk materials are, the bulk composites, it just doesn’t add up from
the properties of the particle plus the properties of the polymer. It's also
this affected zone, this interfacial zone of which we still don't know a whole
lot. So, this additional dearth of information makes these systems even more
challenging, but also super interesting for new applications of data science.

So, in the materials genome space, I call polymer nanocomposites my model
materials system – analogous to the life sciences where you have your model
organisms, like dictyostelium or drosophila or the mouse model. Those are your
model organisms, and you focus in that space. So, polymer nanocomposites are
my model organism, my model material. I call them the slime mold of materials.
Because you think, "Slime mold, who cares?" But if you focus in the genome of
that one organism and connect it to its properties, you can learn something
fundamental with far-reaching impact. And so, the same thing is true here, in
my slime mold of materials polymer nanocomposites. There are a lot of really
interesting problems which will allow us to learn both fundamental mechanisms
connected to control variables by accessing large swaths of data with AI. For
example, what controls those interfacial properties? And, will allow us to
develop intelligent design loops for unimagined materials with superb
properties.

[Sound effect: Music]

Host: Brinson is so passionate about the need for harnessing the power of
artificial intelligence and machine learning to propel materials science
forward, she is leading a three-year, $5-million National Science Foundation
graduate training grant to train the next generation of both computer and
materials scientists and engineers in these skills. The program is called aiM,
shorthand for “AI for Understanding and Designing Materials.” It brings
together PhD students in computer science with PhD students in materials
science to cross-train in such a way that those steeped in AI skills learn
about materials and those steeped in materials science learn how to use AI.

The future is all about team science in which multidisciplinary teams will
work together to solve complex problems. This program helps bridge the gap as
these two fields converge and it gives them common language and skills to work
together more efficiently, and most of all, more successfully.

Thank you for listening today, we hope you've enjoyed it. If you have, please
share it and subscribe to hear more stories about Duke engineers.

Subscribe to the _**Rate of Change**_ podcast in Apple Podcasts or Google
Play:

_The Apple logo is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Google Podcasts and the Google Podcasts logo are trademarks of
Google LLC._

## Featured Faculty

### L. Catherine Brinson

Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Distinguished Professor

View profile »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

