

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Podcast

# Multiplying Microscopes

March 30, 2023

Today, researchers use a variety of imaging techniques to visualize and
analyze biological systems, but there are limits to how much—and how
well—these tools can see. But Duke BME’s Roarke Horstmeyer and his team are
creating new microscopes and imaging algorithms to capture biomedical images
at never-before-seen scales.

## Listen

Rate of Change · Multiplying Microscopes

## Transcript

**Michaela Kane 00:20**  
This is rate of change a podcast from Duke dedicated to the ingenious ways
that engineers are solving some of society's toughest problems. I'm Michaela
Martinez. In the world of Biomedical Imaging, most people are concerned with
what an image tells us is a bone broken our tumor cells shrinking our neurons
firing. Today, researchers use a variety of imaging techniques to visualize
and analyze biological systems. But there are limits to how much and how well
these tools can see. Many optical tools can only capture lower resolution
images with limited fields of view and slow video frame rates, all of which
impact image clarity, but records Meyer and his lab have made it their mission
to address these shortcomings.  
  
 **Roarke Horstmeyer 01:01**  
So my name is Roarke Horstmeyer. I'm an assistant professor in the biomedical
engineering department here. And I make optical devices and algorithms, mostly
for biomedical applications.  
  
 **Michaela Kane 01:15**  
Despite his current role in Dukes biomedical engineering department, Horace
Meyers first experience with optical tools wasn't actually in a biomedical
lab.  
  
 **Roarke Horstmeyer 01:23**  
Yeah, so I actually was an undergraduate at Duke. And I studied physics. And
from probably like that, when I was 18 years old onwards, I always worked on
projects involving optics. The first project I worked on was taking data from
the Hubble telescope and processing it very simply, I was learning programming
at the time, but to help an astronomer at NASA through an internship. And so I
learned about the telescope and how it worked. And I got interested in that.
So when I was here at Duke, I worked with some neutrino data, which is not
really optics, but it was detecting light, and then joined for about a year,
David Brady's lab, here, he was obviously making all sorts of different
cameras and optical devices. And so through that experience, I learned a ton.
And then when I graduated, I went on to continue to work with cameras and
algorithms for processing images. And that then led into microscopes. So I
really came to biomedical engineering, kind of late, I'd say I, and I came
from the perspective of someone making optical instruments and then learned a
tiny bit, and still not that much about biology. It's a huge, crazy, new world
for me, and I'm slowly learning different pieces of it as I can,  
  
 **Michaela Kane 02:56**  
Even though he had a late entry into the Biological and Biomedical world.
Horstmeyer has already found success by collaborating with researchers who can
use his tools to better study biomedical phenomena. One of his most popular
tools is the multi camera over a microscope, which packs several cameras
together into a grid.  
  
 **Roarke Horstmeyer 03:14**  
So with a regular microscope, you zoom in to see something at high resolution,
but then you can't see that much area, you're limited to a small little, you
know, something the size of a dime, maybe. And so if something's moving
around, it can't move around very much, or at all, you would constrain it to
be able to study it. And that is problematic if you want to study its natural
behavior, or social interactions or kind of behavioral aspects of, it's more,
it's more morphology and how that connects to its behavior. So if you can see
a much bigger area, then you can watch them move around. And so with a
microscope, you zoom out, but then you can't see it at such fine detail, you
lose the resolution. And so by having many many microscopes and an array, you
can simultaneously see over this big area. And at high resolution  
  
 **Roarke Horstmeyer 04:12**  
Horstmeyer first began toying around with the idea for this microscope in
graduate school, when a friend who worked at a smartphone company would give
him rolls of the sensors that were used to create smartphone cameras.  
  
 **Roarke Horstmeyer 04:22**  
And they would give me suddenly sensors, which are really amazing cameras. And
they almost were like, just giving them to me as if they didn't cost anything.
You think, Oh, it's this amazing piece of technology, which it is. But because
they make so many of them, right, billions of them a year. The cost is like a
fraction of $1 for each sensor. And so the way that they deliver these sensors
to me, was in a roll. So each kind of sensor was like it was as if it was a
roll of film, but each physical sensor was just in the little patch, and I'd
get like several 100 and a roll and Here's just here's, here's just three. And
so I thought that I was just amazed. I was like, these are like, commodity,
you know, they're it's like, so cheap for them to make, but they're so
powerful. And so a friend of mine, Mark, and I, at the time, we're thinking of
ways to try to improve how microscopes work, and this array idea came up. And
it was just so clear to me that if you wanted to put 100 of these microscopes
together, you should use smartphone camera, right? They're cheap, and they're
just they're really high performing. And so all of our engineering kind of
efforts were built around using smartphone cameras and our microscopes. And so
yeah, what we do is we get somewhere between 50 and 100 of those sensors. We
pack them all together, almost touching, and then we put lenses on top. And
then we have the biggest hardest part is having electronics behind it to be
able to read in 50 or 100 videos all at once. And we along with a friend of
mine before coming to Duke I we made a prototype of that, I guess it's been
about five years now five years ago. And it's just slowly kind of progressed
and gotten more. more nuanced in its applications and also better performing.
We've, I think, got a pretty good design working. And we're using that to
mostly image small model organisms as they move around.  
  
 **Michaela Kane 06:42**  
One of the organisms Horstmeyer's microscope helps neuroscientists study at
Duke is zebrafish. In traditional studies, researchers would need to
anesthetize the young fish to keep them still while measuring their
development. But there were concerns that this would harm the fish's growth
and behavior, which would then skew the experiments results. In two papers
that appear in nature photonics and Optica, Horstmeyer and his collaborators
show that the multi camera at a microscope, or the MCAM, enables researchers
to measure and visualize the behavior of the fish and other organisms non-
invasively. These results were informed by early experiments that were
completed in close collaboration with Dr. Eva Naumann's lab at Duke, which led
to a recent publication in eLife  
By stitching together 54 lenses, the team was able to collect 3d images, large
scale video and take photos at a near cellular level.  
  
And videos posted to their website, users can explore images collected with
the MCM. And one example which shows a mosaic of butterfly wings, it's
possible to zoom in enough to see the individual colored scales on each wing.
The technology has enabled Horstmeyer to build numerous collaborations both at
Duke and at universities across the US. It has also led to the launch of
Ramona Optics.  
  
 **Roarke Horstmeyer 07:47**  
Yeah. And then we have a startup here in Durham. That's, that's developing the
technology for not just labs at Duke, but other labs that are the
universities. And so yeah, the microscopes definitely getting out there. It's
probably at 10 different universities right now, primarily universities. And
it's really starting at other research labs, because its capabilities are so
new, that it's it's, you know, facilitating new discoveries. And so, we, yeah,
are excited to try to make sure that the microscope can lead to these new
findings. I think that's what motivates me, yeah, to push that technology for.  
  
 **Roarke Horstmeyer 08:35**  
But if you're getting a ton of detail over a large space, not to mention
collecting data from 54 synced sources, your file size is going to be big,
really, really big. And when you're working with an image or video file jam
packed with detail, it can be easy to miss small near cellular changes. How
big is that video file?  
  
 **Roarke Horstmeyer 08:53**  
Huge. Yeah. So currently, each frame that we create is almost gigabyte. So we
call it a gigapixel. Okay. So your smartphone is, let's say 10 megapixels, or
five megapixels? I don't know. It depends on the phone you buy. Some of them
go bigger. And they say, Oh, you can get like a 30 megapixel phone. We're
taking those sensors and putting 50 of them together. And so that quickly gets
you up to 1000 megabytes, or megapixels or gigapixel. Okay, and then we're
doing video. Yeah. And so if we're taking a video right now, let's say it's
around 10 frames per second. You can see how much data can quickly accrue.
When you just press play and wait for a minute, you fill up a terabyte hard
drive. So yeah, that's fine, right? You can do that. And then say here, here's
all your data to whoever is doing the experiment. The harder part is, what do
you do with all that data? Yeah, you have to process it and extract useful
information. And so that's why we're also really excited about developing
algorithms to help sift through and make use of all of that image data. So the
second project we work on is algorithms to process all these images. So the
amount of data we're capturing is really large. If we're looking at a big area
at high resolution, it's almost too large for, you know, someone just to sit
there and look at and scroll through and try to make sense of easily in a
efficient way. So we have to develop tools to kind of find organisms as
they're moving around, track them, and try to understand what they're doing
automatically. And that kind of algorithmic development not only applies to
looking at things moving around these little organisms, but also looking at
things that aren't moving, which is like specimen material from patients at
the Duke clinic. So we have a number of collaborations there, looking at thin
tissue sections, blood smear, cytology, smears, and trying to help the
hematologists and cytologists and pathologists more rapidly and efficiently
and effectively make clinical decisions from from lots and lots of image data
that they have to sift through as well. So the algorithms that we're
developing, are using machine learning to infer diagnostic or prognostic
information that you would otherwise not expect, or perhaps otherwise not be
able to directly achieve just from looking at the image data.  
  
 **Michaela Kane 11:35**  
An example of this work involved Horstmeyer and his team imaging blood smears
from patients during the COVID 19 pandemic  
  
 **Roarke Horstmeyer 11:42**  
What we did is we took lots of images of different white blood cells from each
patient, pass them into a machine learning network and had the network predict
if the patient had COVID-19 or not, that's a start the simplest thing to
start. And we did that for hundreds of patients. And then we also had a cohort
that was sick, but not with COVID-19. Okay, and challenged the algorithm with
that data, just from looking at the images of the blood cells, it was able to
get pretty high accuracy, like over 90% accuracy. And so that was just
interesting to see, and curious to us. But what we're really after is, you
know, you can go ahead and just do that and say here's, here's, here's this
result. My lab is really interested in why these machine learning algorithms
are doing what they're doing. And so we took a few steps to try to figure that
out. And one of them was kind of interesting, we first categorized all the
white blood cells into their type of cell, and then looked at which cell type
was most important, okay, for the diagnosis, and that link to some really
recent findings that were saying these particular cell types were impacted by
COVID-19. And not these other ones. Okay, so our algorithm was learning
science that other people were doing, you know, right, concurrently at the
same time, okay. And then we additionally showed a lot of the images that the
algorithm of specific cells, the cells that were really important for its
diagnosis to pathologists, so we kind of closed the loop from, you know,
having the machine try to make a diagnosis to then trying to teach or show a
clinician what was important. And yeah, some of the feedback we got was really
interesting. And so what we're hoping is like, kind of like creating this loop
between algorithms trying to make decisions and then having clinicians or
others look at what the algorithm is doing. There's kind of this virtuous
cycle of learning improvement, making the algorithms better, but then also
teaching the clinicians something new that they may not have otherwise seen or
suspected, whether it's  
  
 **Michaela Kane 13:57**  
developing new algorithms to examine and identify cells, or creating new
microscopes to view never before seen details and zebrafish development.
Horstmeyer is excited about how his tools can be of use to all researchers.  
  
 **Roarke Horstmeyer 14:09**  
Yeah, that's what's great about and I mean, what I love about making
microscopes or just Yeah, imaging devices is that everyone needs images, or
everyone wants to take pictures, either super high resolution or really far
away of the stars or whatever. And so you get to learn about all sorts of
applications. If you know you, you can help make better images for what people
are trying to capture.  
  
 **Michaela Kane 14:36**  
Thanks for tuning in to this episode of Rate of Change. Remember to follow us
on social media for updates and be sure to subscribe to get alerts about
future episodes. Thanks for listening.

Subscribe to the _**Rate of Change**_ podcast in Apple Podcasts or Google
Play:

_The Apple logo is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Google Podcasts and the Google Podcasts logo are trademarks of
Google LLC._

## Featured Faculty

### Roarke Horstmeyer

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

View profile »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

