

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Podcast

# Reversing Bone Loss Due to Osteoporosis

November 17, 2021

Current drugs for osteoporosis can only slow or stop progression of bone loss.
What’s gone is gone. Duke University Professor Shyni Varghese has built a new
molecule that rebuilds bone—and may transform osteoporosis treatment.

## Listen

## Transcript

[Bells/intro music]

 **Elizabeth Witherspoon:** Hello, and welcome to Rate of Change, a podcast
from Duke Engineering, dedicated to the ingenious ways that engineers are
solving society's toughest problems. I’m your host for today’s episode,
Elizabeth Witherspoon.

Whether it will someday be you, or is already affecting someone you know, loss
of bone density is an inevitable part of aging. Bones that are less dense are
weaker and more prone to break. As a population, we are living longer and,
therefore, osteoporosis–the disease of bone density loss, whose name literally
means porous bones–is affecting more people.

According to the National Osteoporosis Foundation, one in two women and up to
one in four men will break a bone in their lifetime due to osteoporosis. For
women, the incidence is greater than that of heart attack, stroke and breast
cancer combined.

Current drugs for osteoporosis can slow or stop the progression of further
bone loss once treatment begins. However, none can strengthen or rebuild bone
density that is already lost.

Shyni Varghese is working to change that and making significant progress.
Varghese, who is professor of mechanical engineering & materials science,
biomedical engineering and orthopedic surgery at Duke University, has
demonstrated in mice that a new molecule – the beginnings of a drug treatment
– can not only stop bone loss, but reverse it all the way back to the same
density as healthy mice. Keep listening to find out how.

[music]

 **Shyni Varghese:** The focus of our lab is solving biomedical problems. And
so, we have a focus on musculoskeletal systems, that is, the cartilage,
joints, skeletal muscle, bone, et cetera. We also go back to animals. We look
at how we can improve the ability of the organisms, in this case, it's the
mice or the rat, to promote regeneration. In that case, we are looking at bone
regeneration, like osteoporosis, fracture healing with aging. And another case
is also with the injury to joint, right? So, if you have a joint injury and
that is an ACL rupture or meniscus injury that leads to osteoarthritis. So, we
mimic that in an animal model. And now, we are trying to develop therapies
that can slow down the progression of osteoarthritis or even treat them. So,
we interface biology, stem cell biology, molecular biology, materials science
and engineering.

 **Witherspoon:** It’s a very interdisciplinary group of students and postdocs
working in Varghese’s lab where they leverage everyone’s expertise to create
these structures. Can you help us understand what regenerative medicine is?

 **Varghese:** So, if you think that we all have the ability to heal, all our
tissues have the ability to heal. But with time our ability to heal declines.
This could be aging, or it could be comorbidities like diabetes, or like
lifestyle, like obesity, smoking, all those things, right? So, the question,
what we are asking is that can we create new approaches that can regenerate
the tissue. It is already compromised and now it can repair itself. Or we can
add the cells, so they are the building blocks and use the cells to repair. It
could be a cell transplantation, so that could be a regenerating medicine. So,
I have a wound, now I wanted to heal it, it is not repairing, so now I take
stem cells, which you can make this tissue, transplant them, and then prime
the cells so the cells become the tissue that we want, so they can contribute
to the tissue regeneration.

The other way is that, now I can just create approaches, like in this case, it
is a small molecule, or a cytokine, or a growth factor, deliver them to the
defective site and rejuvenate the tissue, and now make the endogenous cells to
become very healthy and then start repairing the tissue. So, we can do either
way, right?

So, in the case of regenerative medicine means creating approaches so that we
can regenerate tissues that have been compromised.

 **Witherspoon:** So, tell us about the work you are doing to address
osteoporosis.

 **Varghese:** Initially, I was very interested in bone regeneration. A bone
is one tissue which can heal, it has very good at repairing ability. However,
a significant number of people have failures in healing, like they don't heal
very well. We started interested in knowing that, "Okay, can we just to make
that... develop strategies so we can improve the healing."

And then we created a biomaterial, that is where we used all our material
science to create the scaffold of the bone tissue in the lab and started
throwing stem cells on top of it and trying to see that how this material is
directing the differentiation of these stem cells into bone forming cells. And
we have identified a mechanism that is involved in this process, the
biological process that is involved in this process, and that involves
adenosine.

 **Witherspoon:** Adenosine is a molecule that occurs naturally within the
body and controls many of its processes. Most notably, Varghese’s prior
research has leveraged how it plays a large role in healing of bone at the
site of a fracture. She developed biomaterial implants that can hold the
body’s own adenosine for a longer time where it is needed while also
delivering an additional localized dose to promote healing.

 **Varghese:** Then we started asking how the adenosine is providing signals
for the cells to form bone-forming tissues. And, also, if you think about the
bone, it is highly remodeling, that means it also forms the bone and it is
also degenerate the bone, so it is balanced. So, we wanted to understand, when
that balance is perturbed, you get osteoporosis. That means there is more
degeneration rather than more bone resorption, or degeneration compared to the
formation or building of the bone tissue.

We started asking that there are two key cell populations, the one which is
building the tissue and the one is degenerating. So, we started asking the
questions, how adenosine is, what type of signals that adenosine influence on
these cells? If I take the cells and throw some adenosine on top of the cells,
how do these cells behave? And, we noticed that the adenosine allows the cells
to build the tissue, but also prevent or inhibit the degeneration. So, if you
look at the current osteoporosis drugs, what they do is that they prevent the
resorption, that means the regeneration, they don't allow to build the tissue.
So, now we have a drug that is adenosine molecule that does both the things.

So, we created an osteoporotic model in mice. In fact, we are looking most in
the post-menopause because osteoporosis affects women more than men, and then
we started treating the animal. And we found that the animal, in fact, build a
bone and they reversed osteoporosis. So, it is a very efficient molecule, it
is pretty inexpensive, but now we have to work out the safety, efficacy, et
cetera, that is a different story. Fundamentally it works, now, we need to
figure out how we can translate it if we wanted to treat patients.

[music]

 **Witherspoon:** I understand that one of the challenges you have to overcome
is targeting the adenosine to the bones and bypassing the rest of the body, so
that you won’t have unwanted side effects and that you did that by developing
a nanocarrier – some sort of specialized transportation molecule to carry the
adenosine. Tell us more about that.

 **Varghese:** We have a nanocarrier. We can definitely target that to the
bone tissue, but the nanocarrier also goes into other tissues. They also go to
lung, for example. So now we are trying to change some other properties so we
can minimize their going into other tissues. Even though they go into the lung
tissues, we don't see any side effects.

And now we have another nanocarrier where what we did is not really that we
are targeting them to go to the bone tissue. Whenever you have a lot of bone
degeneration, the pH is very low. The bone tissue is more acidic. So, now we
have a linger which is responsive to the pH. So whenever that sees the low pH,
it will release the drug. So, we have a stimuli, in this case it is the pH,
and we use the pH as a stimuli to release the drugs.

 **Witherspoon:** So, the nanocarrier senses the low pH in the bone, releases
the drug, begins telling it to stop thinning and to even rebuild.

So, when you say it reverses the osteoporosis, how many years back are you
able to reverse the bone loss?

 **Varghese:** So, we had a control which doesn't have osteoporosis and we
compared to that healthy control. So, it was very similar to the healthy
control.

 **Witherspoon:** This took them back as if they didn’t have any osteoporosis
at all? How advanced was the disease in those you treated?

 **Varghese:** So, they have the osteoporotic fractures and a lot of bone
degeneration but it's very hard for me to compare that to a human because I
just don't know how to compare it, but we saw a significant bone degeneration,
the one without the treatment displayed a lot of degeneration.

 **Witherspoon:** How far into the future do you think we are from this being
available to human patients?

 **Varghese:** To be honest with you, at this minute, we have patents on the
technology and all the formulation, et cetera, a couple of disclosures, and
even the U.S. patent. We have some interest in starting up a company and doing
some larger animal model, et cetera. So, I think 5-10 years minimum because
clinical trials are extremely time-consuming and also economically very
expensive. We have some plans of taking these technologies to translate into
clinic. I have a graduate student who has some interest in taking the
technology out after he graduates. We are looking into starting up a company
and then seeing how far we can go and how we can advance the technology, yes.

 **Witherspoon:** What inspired you to get into all this research and what
keeps you so passionate about it?

 **Varghese:** I have trained in a basic polymer science field as a PhD
student. And then when I started seeing that people are using these polymer
systems to create tissues, something which was very hyped at that time, was
tissue engineering. So, I got very fascinated. As a scientist, you can help
people when you solve a problem, a medical need, so that people can have a
better life, right? So, the same way as a scientist, I can really be
passionate about my work. I can push boundaries within the scientific field
and make an advance that can solve a public health problem or any medical
problem, for example. And health problem is one of the biggest problems of our
generation, or any generation, right? Because aging, a lot of diseases, et
cetera. It affects everyone. It is not a problem only for the rich or for the
poor, it has no boundaries, ethnicity, no gender boundaries, financial
boundaries, no social economic boundaries, right? Everyone will have the
challenges from the medical problems. Working in that field, you are really
helping everyone. So, if I create a solution that can be applied to everyone
in the world, then I'm really contributing to the humankind. So, that is
something which makes me passionate about the research.

And the second thing is training the next generation of students. The passion
is very contagious and it's exponentially, like I train one student and when
they become a faculty, they train another 10 students, then each of those
students go and train multiple students. So, you are just really making a
bigger impact because it's not just you, it is all your students and everyone
associated with you.

[music]

 **Witherspoon:** I hope you’ve enjoyed hearing about Professor Shyni
Varghese’s research to address osteoporosis. You can keep up with her progress
– and more science like it – at pratt.duke.edu. To hear more inspiring stories
like this one, be sure to subscribe to the Rate of Change podcast. Thanks for
listening.

[closing bells]

Subscribe to the _**Rate of Change**_ podcast in Apple Podcasts or Google
Play:

_The Apple logo is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Google Podcasts and the Google Podcasts logo are trademarks of
Google LLC._

## Featured Faculty

### Shyni Varghese

Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science and Orthopaedics

View profile »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

