

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# Duke Cyber Club and Annoucements

September 2, 2021

Welcome to Duke Cyber Explore Duke's Student-Led Cyber & Tech Hub

**Check out our website! Live now @**
**https://sites.duke.edu/dukecyberclub/**

**Announcements:**

**_Save The Date!_**

**_CYBER MOVIE NIGHT_**

**Date: TBD**

**Discussion – The Perfect Weapon (HBO Max)**

All Duke students (especially first-years!!) are invited to join us for an
informal, student-led discussion about the HBO Documentary "The Perfect
Weapon." Based on the best-selling book, the film "explores the rise of cyber
conflict as the primary way nations now compete with and sabotage one
another." Trailer here.

**Cyber Opportunities**

**CS Sidekicks**

Now recruiting Sidekicks for Fall '21 Pathways Program. CS Sidekicks is a non-
profit organization that strives to provide innovative computer science
curriculum to historically underserved students. By combining quality
curriculum and active mentor guidance, our aim is to enable Durham Public
School students to become independent learners. If you're interested in
becoming a Fall Sidekick, or want to learn more, please fill out
(https://forms.gle/jTFjJjEttqhgQ2NZA) and/or visit www.cssidekicks.com

**Duke Cyber Blog**

Interested in exploring a cyber topic of your interest and getting published?
Contact Aden (aden.klein@duke.edu) to learn more about how you can write for
the Duke Cyber Blog.

**Duke Co-Lab Roots: Systems & Security Track**

The Duke Co-Lab is offering a series of free sessions in its new systems &
security track! Courses include "Intro to Information Security Threats,"
"Ethical Hacking and Practical Pentesting," and "Detecting and Preventing
Security Threats." Check the workshops out here.

**Cyber Internships**

### Naval Research Enterprise Internship Program

The Naval Research Enterprise Internship Program (NREIP) provides an
opportunity for college students to participate in research at a Department of
Navy (DoN) laboratory during the summer. The goals of NREIP are to encourage
participating college students to pursue science and engineering careers, to
further education via mentoring by laboratory personnel and their
participation in research, and to make them aware of DoN research and
technology efforts, which can lead to employment within the DoN. NREIP is
providing competitive research internships to approximately 800 college
students this year. Participating students spend ten weeks during the summer
conducting research at 45 DoN laboratories. **Learn More**

### CAE in Cyber Operations Summer Intern Program OPEN NOW- Oct 31

The Centers of Academic Excellence (CAE) in Cyber Operations Summer Intern
Program (CAE-Cyber Ops Summer Intern Program) is the National Security
Agency's (NSA) premier outreach program for students enrolled in the Cyber
Operations specialization at NSA-designated universities. Selectees will be
invited to participate in a 12-week summer program to gain knowledge of
specific cyber-related topics and apply educational knowledge to address
various real world mission-related technical challenges. Participants in the
program will work on a broad range of problems involving applications of
computer science and engineering. **Learn More**

**New to Cyber? Get started with these resources:**

Wired Security, POLITICO Weekly Cybersecurity, The Washington Post's Cyber
202, Lawfare's Cyberlaw Podcast, TechCrunch Security

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

