

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# How to Protect the Cybersecurity of Health Data: A Conversation with Errol
Weiss and John Banghart

March 19, 2021

During the pandemic, cybersecurity attacks on health care providers has risen
dramatically

During the pandemic, cybersecurity attacks on health care providers has risen
dramatically. One of the best ways to protect against these attacks is
effective sharing of cybersecurity threat and vulnerability information. Errol
Weiss and John Banghart are world renowned experts on how threat and
vulnerability information sharing works and how it can be improved.

Errol Weiss joined Health Information Sharing & Analysis Center (Health-ISAC)
in April 2019 as its first Chief Security Officer. Mr. Weiss created and
staffed Health-ISAC's Threat Operations Center in Titusville. Florida,
providing members with meaningful and actionable threat intelligence relevant
for IT and infosec professionals in the healthcare sector. He has over 25
years of experience in Information Security. He began his career with the
National Security Agency (NSA) conducting vulnerability analyses and
penetrations of classified government systems and then spent ten years
delivering Information Security Services for Fortune-100 companies. Mr. Weiss
is one of four named inventors on the patent for Trusted and Anonymous
Information Sharing and was responsible for the creation, implementation and
operation of the world’s first ISAC. From 2006 to 2016, he created and ran
Citigroup’s Cyber Intelligence Center and provided actionable intelligence to
thousands of internal users globally. Prior to H-ISAC, Mr. Weiss was a Senior
Vice President Executive with Bank of America’s Global Information Security
team. Mr. Weiss has a M.S. in Technical Management from Johns Hopkins
University and a B.S. in Computer Engineering from Bucknell University.

John Banghart is Senior Director of Cybersecurity Services at Venable. He
leverages his significant federal government and private sector experience in
cybersecurity to navigate issues related to risk management, government
policy, standards and regulatory compliance, and incident management. He has
successfully led efforts to address significant and high-profile cybersecurity
issues within major government programs and institutions while facing complex
legal, technical, and political circumstances. Prior to joining Venable, Mr.
Banghart was the senior director for Trusted Engineering for Microsoft. In
this position, he coordinated multiple teams to develop, implement, and
oversee strategy for government adoption of Microsoft’s Azure cloud services.
Part of the implementation involved meeting strict federal and Defense
Department compliance requirements. From 2013 to 2015, John played a key role
in developing the Obama administration's cybersecurity and technology policy
as the National Security Council's director for federal cybersecurity. He led
policy, technical, and process efforts to reduce cybersecurity risk and
improve metrics and measurement for all civilian, military, and intelligence
community agencies. He served as a primary advisor on cybersecurity incidents
and preparedness and led the National Security Council’s efforts to address
significant cybersecurity incidents, including those at OPM and the White
House, among others. John also worked as a senior cybersecurity advisor for
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, providing leadership to the
cybersecurity preparations for the Healthcare.gov website. He also spent
several years at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST),
both as a cybersecurity researcher and in the Office of the Undersecretary of
Commerce for Standards and Technology. Early in his career, John was a
technology leader at several private sector companies, including Booz Allen
Hamilton and the Center for Internet Security.

Register at:
https://duke.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJYvcuqpqzktGtxPRL5WyyDiyOVMRHjmJxvf

Title: How to Protect the Cybersecurity of Health Data: A Conversation with
Errol Weiss and John Banghart

Date and Time: 3/18 6 – 7:30 PM

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

