

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# New Year, More Cyber

February 8, 2021

Our club events focus on cutting-edge cyber issues ranging from data privacy
and cybersecurity to internet governance and the intersection of tech and
human rights.

Welcome back! We are the Duke student group that explores the purpose, roles,
& implications of cyberspace and 21st century tech. Our club events focus on
cutting-edge cyber issues ranging from data privacy and cybersecurity to
internet governance and the intersection of tech and human rights.

**Duke Groups Registration**

​It's official: we're on Duke Groups! As we look towards potentially hosting
in-person events, make sure you're registered with _Duke Cyber._ Have a friend
you think would be interested in our events and opportunities? Send them the
link below and we'll add them to the Cyber Listserv.

**Register Here**

**Upcoming Cyber Events**

**Thursday 2/4 10:15-11:30 AM ET - Ali Jessani – Privacy and Security in the
Healthcare Sector**

Ali Jessani is a Privacy and Cybersecurity Lawyer at WilmerHale, counseling
clients on the privacy, cybersecurity, and regulatory risks presented by new
and proposed uses of technology and consumer information. He will be speaking
on what it is like day to day to be a privacy and security lawyer, with a
specific focus on the healthcare sector.

Join here

**Meeting ID: 922 4559 2239**

**Passcode: 0b705a**

**Wednesday 2/10 6 PM ET - Ben Wittes, Brookings/Lawfare**

**Join Professor David Hoffman as he speaks with Ben Wittes, Senior Fellow,
Research Director in Public Law and Co-Director of the Harvard Law School-
Brookings Project on Law and Security at the Brookings Center.** **More
details** **coming soon!**

****

**_**Save The Date!  
DUKE CYBER SOCIAL EVENT **_**

**Wednesday 2/17 8:30 PM ET Movie**

**Discussion – The Perfect Weapon (HBO Max)**

All Duke students (especially first-years!!) are invited to join us for an
informal, student-led discussion about the HBO Documentary "The Perfect
Weapon." Based on the best-selling book, the film "explores the rise of cyber
conflict as the primary way nations now compete with and sabotage one
another." Trailer here. More information coming soon!

**Cyber Opportunities**

**Duke Cyber Blog**  
Interested in exploring a cyber topic of your interest and getting published?
Contact Aden (aden.klein@duke.edu) to learn more about how you can write for
the Duke Cyber Blog.

**Cyber Book Club**

This semester's Book Club pick is **"Sandworm: A New Era of Cyberwar and the
Hunt for the Kremlin's Most Dangerous Hackers"** by _Wired_ senior writer Andy
Greenberg. Book Club Discussion meeting information TBA!

**Duke Co-Lab Roots: Systems & Security Track**

The Duke Co-Lab is offering a series of free sessions in its new systems &
security track! Courses include "Intro to Information Security Threats,"
"Ethical Hacking and Practical Pentesting," and "Detecting and Preventing
Security Threats." Check the workshops out here.

**New to Cyber? Get started with these resources:**

Wired Security, POLITICO Weekly Cybersecurity, The Washington Post's Cyber
202, Lawfare's Cyberlaw Podcast, TechCrunch Security

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

