

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News » Archives

# News Archive for Faculty

June 21, 2022

### Tania Roy: Building High-Energy Space Electronics and Brain-Like AI
Hardware

New faculty member Tania Roy brings a research portfolio that complements
existing strengths within Duke’s Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

June 12, 2022 | HiPEAC Blog

### Duke ECE's Hai "Helen" Li: Machine Learning Should Consider Vertical
Integration

The HiPEAC 2022 keynote speaker discusses the fascinating – and now ubiquitous
– topic of machine learning

June 09, 2022

### Glimpses of Quantum Computing Phase Changes Show Researchers the Tipping
Point

Tuning a quantum computer’s measurement rate provides hints of quantum phase
transition

June 08, 2022 | Carnegie Climate Governance Initiative (C2G) Blog

### Climate Engineering: Would Solar radiation Modification Increase or
Decrease Overall Risk?

Duke risk engineers write that a consideration in deciding whether to pursue
solar radiation modification to offset global warming should be a comparison
of climate risk reduction against the severity of any countervailing risks

June 06, 2022

### Color-Changing Mouse Model Allows Researchers to Non-Invasively Study Deep
Tissues

Changing the color of mouse tissue helps scientists isolate and remove
background noise to improve imaging

June 03, 2022 | The Economic Times

### The Building Blocks of Transformational Leadership: An Interview With
Duke's Sanyin Siang

Sanyin Siang E'96, is a respected executive coach and an adjunct associate
professor in Duke's Master of Engineering Management program.

June 02, 2022

### Duke Researchers Take Optical Coherence Tomography to the Next Level

With clearer imaging and enhanced resolution, a new OCT approach developed at
Duke could improve medical diagnostic imaging

May 20, 2022

### Jian Pei: Developing Fair and Transparent Applications for Advances in
Data Science

New faculty member Jian Pei connects data science research to real-world
applications with an eye on efficiency, fairness and transparency

May 20, 2022

### NAE Grand Challenges Scholar Program Recognized with Gordon Prize

The National Academy of Engineering recognized the program's innovative
approach to engineering education

May 19, 2022 | Duke Eye Center

### Physician-Engineer Collaborators Talk Team Science at Major Ophthalmic
Conference

Duke Opthalmologist Cynthia Toth and Biomedical Engineer Joseph Izatt told the
ARVO 2022 audience about how their 20 years of intense teamwork across
multiple disciplines has positively impacted ophthalmic research

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * 10
  * 11
  * 12
  * 13
  * 14
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

