

Skip to main content

  * Duke University
  * Pratt School of Engineering

  * Apply Online
  * Visit
  * Contact

__

  * About
    * Is Duke Right for Me?
    * About the MEng Degree at Duke
    * Courses and Curriculum
    * Internship/Project
    * Career Services & Outcomes
    * Options for Current Duke Students
    * Non-Degree Candidates
  * Apply
    * How to Apply
    * Connect With Us
    * Visit Duke
    * Application Requirements
    * Application Deadlines
    * Apply Online
    * Tuition and Financial Aid

__

# MEng Courses and Curriculum

Master of Engineering students in all disciplines must complete 30 credits
comprised of key program elements as follows:

  * Core industry preparatory courses (2 graduate courses, 6 credits)
  * Departmental or interdisciplinary core courses (5-6 graduate courses, 15 -
    18 credits, varies by department)
  * Technical electives in a concentrated area (2-3 graduate courses, 6 - 9
    credits, varies by department)
  * Internship, Project, or Equivalent

## Core Industry Preparatory Courses

The core industry preparatory courses provide you with the business skills you
need to succeed in industry. Business savvy and technical expertise gained in
the MEng program will help you understand and work effectively in a corporate
climate. The core industry preparatory courses are:

  * **Business Fundamentals for Engineers** – essentials of intellectual
    property, marketing, accounting/finance, and business strategies for
    technology companies
  * **Management of High Tech Industries** – significant principles of
    strategic decision making in complex environments, project analysis,
    intricate investment analysis, and the role of the manager in expertise
    driven organizations

##### Read More: Core Industry Prep Courses

The Core Industry Preparatory Courses will demystify business leadership,
management, ethics, finance, marketing and communication. The classes will
explain the important qualities of successful leadership, and help you
systematically build your skills. You will prepare to engage with teams of
people across a broad spectrum of disciplines and jobs—exactly the type of
situation you’ll find in the working world—allowing you to have an immediate
and productive impact.

## MENG 540: Management of High Tech Industries

This course addresses critical qualities of leadership, management skills, and
decision making in complex environments. Essential topics include:

  * Leadership and communication principles
  * Strategic decision making where outcomes depend on high technology
  * Management of project-based and team-based organizational structures and
    the role of the manager in expertise driven organizations

## MENG 570: Business Fundamentals for Engineers

This course provides an overview of the essentials of intellectual property,
marketing, accounting and finance, and business strategies for technology
companies. Principles covered include:

  * Marketing, methods of distributing products, analysis of marketing
    situations, and connections between marketing and other functions of the
    business
  * Accounting and Finance, including time value of money, financial
    statements, balance sheets, cash flow and risk, receivables, inventories,
    assets and liabilities, investments, and shareholders' equity
  * Intellectual Property, including the patenting process, drafting claims,
    legal recourses for patent infringement, the patent appeal process,
    patents strategies, the Patent Cooperation Treaty and the European Union
    Patenting System. Copyright, trademarks and trade secrets will also be
    covered
  * Technology based business strategy topics such as Forces of Strategic
    Space, Blue Ocean Strategy, and Disruptive Technologies

## Departmental Courses

Each engineering discipline has defined a set of requirements for the MEng
program designed to give you in-depth technical knowledge of a particular
field. Our programs give you flexibility in course selection within your
chosen discipline, and the departmental course requirements vary. To learn
more, choose your field of interest from those listed in the Disciplines menu.

## Technical Electives

Technical elective options give you more opportunity to specialize in your
area of interest, and really take advantage of Duke’s leading status in
several fields. Specializations like these will distinguish you with potential
employers. You will work with a faculty advisor to customize a curriculum that
suits you. In some cases, an independent study sponsored by a faculty member
may satisfy an elective requirement.

Technical Elective options vary. To learn more, choose your major of interest
from those listed in the Disciplines menu.

## Internship/Project

We require all MEng students to engage in an internship or project to complete
the program. The many options available to fulfill this requirement give you a
chance to practice what you’re learning, ask questions and hone your skills in
a supportive environment. Internships may be paid or unpaid, corporate or
governmental. Projects may take the form of applied research positions,
provided the learning objectives are met.

Once your project or internship is completed, you will prepare a written
and/or oral project report. Individual programs/majors may have additional
requirements or exceptions to fulfill the internship component of the program.

Read more: MEng Internship/Project

## About

  * Is Duke Right for Me?
  * About the MEng Degree at Duke
  * Courses and Curriculum
  * Internship/Project
  * Career Services & Outcomes
  * Options for Current Duke Students
  * Non-Degree Candidates

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __About
      *  __Is Duke Right for Me?
      *  __About the MEng Degree at Duke
      *  __Courses and Curriculum
      *  __Internship/Project
      *  __Career Services & Outcomes
      *  __Options for Current Duke Students
      *  __Non-Degree Candidates
    *  __Apply
      *  __How to Apply
      *  __Connect With Us
      *  __Visit Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
        *  __Uploading a Transcript
        *  __Grade Scale
        *  __Short Answer Essays
        *  __Resume
        *  __Recommendations
        *  __GRE Scores
        *  __English Language Testing
        *  __Application Fee
        *  __Interview/Video Introduction
        *  __Minimum Application Requirements
        *  __International Applicants
        *  __Deposit for Enrolling Students
        *  __Submitting Final Transcripts
      *  __Application Deadlines
      *  __Apply Online
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
  * __Quick Links
    * __Apply Online
    *  __Visit
    *  __Contact

    * 

