

Skip to main content

  * Duke University
  * Pratt School of Engineering

  * Apply Online
  * Visit
  * Contact

__

  * About
    * Is Duke Right for Me?
    * About the MEng Degree at Duke
    * Courses and Curriculum
    * Internship/Project
    * Career Services & Outcomes
    * Options for Current Duke Students
    * Non-Degree Candidates
  * Apply
    * How to Apply
    * Connect With Us
    * Visit Duke
    * Application Requirements
    * Application Deadlines
    * Apply Online
    * Tuition and Financial Aid

__

# Options for Current Duke Students and Graduates

## Duke Undergrads 4+1

Duke undergrads can earn a bachelor's degree and a Master of Engineering or
Master of Engineering Management degree in just five years through Duke's
progressive 4+1 Masters program. Students who are admitted as undergradautes
get a head start in this accelerated program by taking graduate level courses
during their senior year. Watch an overview >>

### Details to Remember

  * To be admitted while an undergraduate, complete our online application as
    early as the spring of your junior year or as late as the spring of your
    senior year and indicate that you are a 4+1 candidate. See our tips on
    choosing when to apply. An application fee waiver is available for Duke
    students, and Duke 4+1 applicants are not required to take the GRE.
  * You can allocate up to four departmental graduate courses ***** taken in
    your senior year toward your MEng/MEM degree requirements using the Pratt
    Credit Transfer form. Transferred courses must fulfill MEng/MEM degree
    requirements in the major of interest. Note: Only the credits transfer,
    the grade remains on your undergraduate transcript and is part of your
    undergraduate GPA.
  * You need to earn at least a B in each graduate level course for it to
    count toward your MEng/MEM degree.
  * Graduate courses used for your MEng/MEM degree cannot be used for your
    undergraduate degree
  * In order for students admitted as undergraduates to complete the program
    in only one additional year, you must complete the required internship the
    summer between your undergraduate degree and the start of your master's
    program at Duke.
  * International 4+1 students are strongly encouraged to use Curricular
    Practical Training (CPT) for the summer internship, as the internship is a
    required component of the degree, and the CPT process can be completed
    more quickly than OPT for your undergraduate degree. If you have questions
    on CPT eligibility, we encourage you to contact Duke Visa Services.
  * 4+1 students admitted during the undergraduate program may defer admission
    for up to three years. Students may request to transfer their admission to
    one of the Master of Engineering Online programs or the Master of
    Engineering Management Online program.

***** The transfer of credit requires approval of the Director of Master of
Engineering Studies (DMS) for the major of interest/Director of the MEM
program and the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Affairs. AB Duke scholars and
other students on a case-by-case basis may be able to allocate up to six
courses towards the degree. Graduate courses are listed in the 500s or above.

### When to Apply

##### Early Admission for Undergraduates

If you're an undergraduate, when should you apply? You have three options.

  * Spring of Junior Year for admission in Fall of Senior year
  * Fall of Senior Year for admission in Spring of Senior year
  * Spring of Senior Year for admission in Fall of 5th year

Note that no matter when you apply, you'll remain an undergraduate for four
years before becoming a MEng/MEM student in the fifth year. That means that
you should select your application term based on when you'll actually join the
program after graduation, not when you'd like to take and MEng/EGRMGMT or
departmental graduate courses you plan to transfer. For that reason, the
application will choose summer term 1 for the year of your BSE graduation, but
your application will be considered and a decision will be posted in the
admission timeline you seek.

**Example:** If you’d like a decision before you take the classes, apply using
the deadlines the term in which you’ll take them. For example, if you want to
take the classes in Spring, you'd apply using Spring admission deadlines to
hear back by December 1 of your senior year.

### Please note

4+1 students admitted to the MEng/MEM program while undergraduates remain an
undergraduate for four years before becoming a MEng/MEM student in the fifth
year. Typically, matriculation occurs in summer term 1 after the spring
semester of the senior year, and students will complete the internship
requirement within 1 year of matriculation. Students will be charged as
undergraduates for the first four years and as MEng/MEM students for the fifth
year. The MEng program charges tuition by semester, and payment by credit is
not available in the fifth year. The MEM program charges 4+1 students by
credit in the fifth year.

All 4+1s should submit paperwork for the transfer of credits from the
student's undergraduate program into the MEng/MEM program within the first
semester of starting the program.

In order to complete the program in only one additional year after being
admitted as an undergraduate, a 4+1 must complete the required internship the
summer between the undergraduate degree and the start of the MEng/MEM program.
4+1 students should seek approval from the department before beginning the
internship.  

The MEng core courses/MEM(EGRMGMT) courses are available to undergraduates who
have been admitted to the 4+1 program on a space available basis. After
admission, 4+1 students work with our academic coordinator to receive
permission numbers to allow registration for MENG/EGRMGMT courses while an
undergraduate. Not all graduate level courses are available to undergraduates
and permission numbers will only be provided for MENG/EGRMGMT courses. If a
4+1 undergraduate student desires to take graduate level electives classes
that are not available to undergraduates, a 4+1 student should take these
courses in the fifth year of study.

Trinity students need to plan their undergraduate courses carefully to ensure
they allow room in their schedule for graduate level courses in their senior
year. Students without room in their senior year may require more than one
additional year to complete the MEng degree – contact us for more information.

Contact the admissions office for more information.

### 4+1: Student Perspectives

> "The 4+1 MEng Program was the perfect opportunity for me to spend one more
> year on a beautiful campus, earn my Master’s degree, and share my alma mater
> with MEng peers from around the world. The Civil MEng program allowed me to
> take my structural engineering education to the next level while gaining an
> introduction to the business side of the industry. To this day when I speak
> to prospective Pratt students, I highlight the unique MEng program that Duke
> has to offer. Everything from graduate student campout to MEMP seminars
> enhanced my overall Duke experience."
>
> **Rachel Fleming**  
>  BSE Civil Engineering May 2012  
> MEng Civil Engineering May 2013  
> Gilbane Building Company  
> Durham, North Carolina

Read Alumni Spotlight

Read article on BME 4+1 student Vinay Nagaraj

## Duke Early Career Graduates 4+1

If you're a recent Duke alumnus who has taken graduate engineering courses
that weren't used for your BA,BS, or BSE, you may apply for 4+1 admission up
to five years after graduating from Duke's undergraduate program.

### Details to Remember

  * To be admitted as alumnus, complete our online application within 5 years
    of graduating, and indicate you a recent graduate (2018-2022 bachelor’s
    degree) of Duke University who plans to apply to the 4+1 program. An
    application fee waiver is available for Duke alumni, and Duke 4+1
    applicants are not required to take the GRE.
  * You can allocate up to four departmental graduate courses ***** taken in
    your senior year toward your MEng/MEM degree requirements using the Pratt
    Credit Transfer form. Transferred courses must fulfill MEng/MEM degree
    requirements in the major of interest. Note: Only the credits transfer,
    the grade remains on your undergraduate transcript and is part of your
    undergraduate GPA.
  * You need to earn at least a B in each graduate level course for it to
    count toward your MEng/MEM degree.
  * Graduate courses used for your MEng/MEM degree cannot be used for your
    undergraduate degree
  * Any Duke alumnus may apply for 4+1 up to five years after graduating from
    Duke's undergraduate program, and Duke offers several Master of
    Engineering Online programs as well as the Master of Engineering
    Management Online program.

***** The transfer of credit requires approval of the Director of Master of
Engineering Studies (DMS) for the major of interest/Director of the MEM
program and the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Affairs. AB Duke scholars and
other students on a case-by-case basis may be able to allocate up to six
courses towards the degree. Graduate courses are listed in the 500s or above.

### Please note

Alumni 4+1s are charged as MEng/MEM students for the fifth year. The MEng
program charges tuition by semester, and payment by credit is not available in
the fifth year. The MEM program charges 4+1 students by credit in the fifth
year.

All 4+1s should submit paperwork for the transfer of credits from the
student's undergraduate program into the MEng/MEM program within the first
semester of starting the program.

In order to complete the program in only one additional year, a 4+1 must
complete the required internship. Alumni who are admitted may sometimes use
work experience in lieu of the internship.

Alumni without extraneous graduate courses year may require more than one
additional year to complete the MEng degree – contact us for more information.  

Contact the admissions office for more information.

## Duke PhD Students in Engineering

Students who received their PhD degree from the Pratt School of Engineering
may also want to pursue a MEng degree to obtain the breadth found in the MEng
core courses.

To facilitate this, PhD students may utilize their PhD courses to fulfill the
technical course requirements of the MEng degree (i.e., the eight noncore
course requirements) if those courses meet the curricular requirements of the
MEng major of interest. Thus, PhD students may obtain the MEng degree by
adding the two MEng core courses to their coursework and fulfilling the
internship requirements.

Note that generally the student’s PhD research will not be acceptable as the
internship experience for the concurrent MEng degree. Students must apply for
the MEng Program independently from the PhD and must be enrolled in the MEng
Program (i.e., dual enrolled in the MEng and PhD) before taking the MEng core
courses. Students should register for these MEng core courses separately from
their PhD courses under their MEng “bookbag” and will be billed for these
courses separately from their PhD. Other MEng courses to be utilized to
fulfill the MEng requirements may be taken at anytime while a PhD student,
before or after enrolling in the MEng Program.

Note that being accepted as a PhD student does not guarantee acceptance as an
MEng student. Note that students will generally receive their MEng degree at
the same time or after receiving their PhD. If a student does not obtain a
PhD, only four of the technical courses taken as a PhD student may be applied
to the MEng degree. The other four technical MEng course requirements and the
MEng core courses must be taken after enrollment in the MEng Program.

All PhD students should discuss their plans with their faculty advisor for
their research program and with the DMS for their major of interest. When
applying for the MEng degree, he/she should indicate they are already a PhD
student and plan to do the MEng concurrently with his/her PhD.

## Duke MD Students

MD/Master of Engineering Dual Degree Program at Duke University

MD candidates in Duke’s School of Medicine have the option of adding the
Master of Engineering (MEng) degree in a 5-year program. Students spend four
years (Years 1, 2, 4 and 5) in medical school to fulfill the MD curriculum
requirements, and one year (Year 3) to take the required MEng courses. In the
fourth year, students work on development of new technologies or engineering
approaches (including optimization/system analysis or feasibility analysis,
etc.) for improving human health and write a thesis, for which they will
receive School of Medicine credit in fulfillment of their Third Year thesis
requirement.

### School of Medicine Requirements

The MD curriculum requirements for typical Years 1, 2, and 4 (Year 5 for dual
students) remain unchanged by this program.

School of Medicine Third Year thesis credit will be based on submission of a
document whose rigor is consistent with current Third Year theses. As with all
current Third Year theses, the thesis proposals will require Third Year School
of Medicine approval. The thesis would consist of a detailed Business Plan,
complete with extended Introduction (similar to the extended Introduction
currently required of Third Year students who choose the manuscript or grant
alternative theses) stating more thoroughly the human health need being
addressed. The scope, subject, and outcomes of the thesis will be determined
by the Engineering program of specialization in collaboration with the School
of Medicine. A thesis alternative can be submitted in the form of a SBIR/STTR
grant application since the grant thesis alternative is already an approved
option offered to all Third Year medical students. At the discretion of and
selected by the Third Year Committee, the thesis may be reviewed by faculty or
other experts well versed in the specific technology field who are not on the
Committee. These external reviews would be used by members of the Third Year
Committee to grade the theses in order to ensure that the grading standards,
rigor and criteria are consistent with current theses. The thesis may also be
used to fulfill requirements for the MEng 550/551 courses.

### Pratt School of Engineering Requirements

Master of Engineering students in all majors must complete 30 credits
comprised of key program elements as follows:

  * Core industry preparatory courses (6 credits)
  * Departmental or interdisciplinary core courses (15 - 18 credits, varies by
    major)
  * Technical electives in a concentrated area (6 - 9 credits, varies by
    major)
  * Internship, Project, or Equivalent

Additionally, some majors have a seminar participation requirement.

The MD/MEng student will fulfill all of the requirements of the MEng degree.
To accomplish this, the following accommodation has been made for those
seeking a dual degree:

  * 6-9 credits (depends on MEng major) required for the MEng degree may be
    fulfilled based on satisfactory completion of the School of Medicine 1
    Basic Sciences curriculum (see table below).

Major MD credits  
applied to  
MEng degree Description  
Biomedical Engineering 9 3 Credits - Life Science Requirement  
6 Credits - Technical Electives  
Civil Engineering 6 6 Credits - Technical Electives  
Electrical and Computer Engineering 9 9 Credits - Technical Electives  
Environmental Engineering 9 9 Credits - Technical Electives  
Materials Science and Engineering 6

6 Credits - Technical Electives  
  
Mechanical Engineering 6

6 Credits - Technical Electives  
  
Photonics and Optical Systems 6

6 Credits - Technical Electives  
  
  * Internship, project, or equivalent requirement may be fulfilled as
    described below.

In the 4th year, each MEng student is required to undertake a practical
internship, which must encompass at least 320 hours of effort (as documented
in their detailed laboratory notebook). These internships are by nature
focused on engineering applications and technology development. To achieve
this, each MD/MEng student may work under the auspices of Faculty in the
School of Medicine, MedBlue Program, the Pratt School of Engineering, or other
similar program to be reviewed and approved by representatives from the MEng
and SOM faculty. Specifically, each MD/MEng candidate will:

  1. work under the guidance of one or two attending physicians and engineers during their 4th year (“second third year”) to identify and complete at least one comprehensive Confidential Need Specification with the sponsorship of one of the clinical faculty;
  2. develop new technologies or engineering approaches (including optimization/system analysis or feasibility analysis, etc.) for improving human health based on the Need Specification;
  3. present their proposed technology or engineering approach to a select group of prospective investors and/or end users (clinicians);
  4. complete an Invention Disclosure Form approved by faculty advisor for the project and the faculty who teach the internship course, MEng 551
  5. (optional) submit the IDF, which requires review and signature of appropriate SOM Department Chair; review and signature by appropriate Engineering Department Chair.
  6. (optional) provide required information and support to OLV to assist in their review and action.

### Example Curriculum

The MD/MEng is most closely aligned with the Biomedical Engineering major and
is ideal for medical students with an interest in innovation and
entrepreneurship. The example below shows the Pratt course work requirements
for a major in Biomedical Engineering with an emphasis in Healthcare
Innovation and Entrepreneurship.

#### The Master of Engineering in Biomedical Engineering with emphasis on
Healthcare Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Requirement MD/MEng Fulfillment of Requirement  
Core Industry Preparation Courses (6 credits)

  * MEng 540 Management of High Tech Industries (3 credits)

  * MEng 570 Business Fundamentals for Engineers (3 credits)

  
Life Science (3 credits)

  * Satisfactory completion of SoM 1 Basis Sciences

  
Advanced mathematics (3 credits)

  * See BME website for approve math courses

  
BME courses (9 credits)

  * BME 590.01 - Biomedical Device Innovation (3 credits)

  * Select from BME offerings described in BME curricular notes (6 credits)

  
Engineering Elective (3 credits)

  * BME 490 Special Topics in BME Design (3 credits)

  
Other technical electives (6 credits)

  * Completion of SoM 1 Basic Sciences fulfills this requirement

  
Internship, Project or Equivalent (zero credits)

  * MENG 550 Internship or Applied Research Project

  * MENG 551 Internship/Project Assessment

  * Note: students perform internship as described in this proposal

  
BME seminar (zero credits)

  * EGRMGMT 501 Engineering Management Seminar

  
  
### Application Requirements and Process

The applicant must be in good standing with the School of Medicine.
Applications should be submitted using an application to the Master of
Engineering program. MD/MEng students should indicate on their application
that they will be pursuing MEng as a concurrent degree.

Although the application deadline is June 1, students interested in this
program should apply by March 15, the second round deadline, in the second
year of the MD program.

See the links below for more information.

  * Application Deadlines
  * Application Requirements (Note that applicants may use MCAT scores in lieu
    of GRE scores for the MD-MEng dual degree only.)
  * Apply Online

### Review Process

The student must inform the Third Year Study Program Director in the School of
Medicine, the Director of Masters Studies in the appropriate MEng major, and
the Pratt Professional Masters Admissions Office so that the application and
dual degree plan can be reviewed and approved separately from the Pratt School
general admissions review.

### Tuition

Students will pay Master of Engineering tuition for one year (two semesters)
after the MS2 year and School of Medicine tuition for four years (SoM 1, SoM
2, SoM 3 [year 4], and SoM 4[year 5]). The typical MEng degree is 3 semesters
and so obtaining a concurrent degree saves students the equivalent of one
semester of tuition compared to obtaining both degrees separately.

### Granting of Degree

Because this is a concurrent degree and Medical School courses are being used
to fulfill MEng degree requirements, the MEng degree will be granted
simultaneous to the granting of the MD degree, typically at the end of the 5th
year. If a MD/MEng student leaves the MD program before completing both
degrees, a case-by-case analysis may be performed to determine if the MEng
degree may be granted independently or if additional coursework is required to
independently fulfill the MEng degree requirements. Since no accommodation has
been made to the MD requirements, students withdrawing from the MEng degree
will not impact MD degree requirements.

## Duke Graduate and Professional Students in Other Departments

Duke graduate and professional students who are not enrolled in the MEng
Program may register for the two MEng core courses on a space-available basis
and with permission of the instructor. Instructors will require students to
have sufficient background for the course as needed AND may also limit outside
enrollment for any pedagogical reason.

Non-MEng students should complete the following steps to get into the course:

  * Complete the Non-MEng Registration form
  * On the form, obtain permission from the instructor and from their home
    department either in e-mail or with a signature
  * Return the form to the Academic Coordinator at 3120 Fitzpatrick (CIEMAS)

Please note:

  * The MEng Office does not process forms until all MEng students have a
    chance to enroll, so you may not officially be added to the class until
    the end of the first week of classes.
  * Non-MEng students will not be added to wait lists but are added to classes
    in the order in which they completed their form.
  * Generally no more than 5 non-MEng students will be allowed to enroll in a
    course at any given time.
  * Students who enroll in MEng courses as non-MEng students may not utilize
    these courses for an MEng degree.
  * The deadline to submit this form is the last day of drop/add, usually two
    weeks after the start of the semester.

If you have questions, contact our office.

## About

  * Is Duke Right for Me?
  * About the MEng Degree at Duke
  * Courses and Curriculum
  * Internship/Project
  * Career Services & Outcomes
  * Options for Current Duke Students
  * Non-Degree Candidates

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __About
      *  __Is Duke Right for Me?
      *  __About the MEng Degree at Duke
      *  __Courses and Curriculum
      *  __Internship/Project
      *  __Career Services & Outcomes
      *  __Options for Current Duke Students
      *  __Non-Degree Candidates
    *  __Apply
      *  __How to Apply
      *  __Connect With Us
      *  __Visit Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
        *  __Uploading a Transcript
        *  __Grade Scale
        *  __Short Answer Essays
        *  __Resume
        *  __Recommendations
        *  __GRE Scores
        *  __English Language Testing
        *  __Application Fee
        *  __Interview/Video Introduction
        *  __Minimum Application Requirements
        *  __International Applicants
        *  __Deposit for Enrolling Students
        *  __Submitting Final Transcripts
      *  __Application Deadlines
      *  __Apply Online
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
  * __Quick Links
    * __Apply Online
    *  __Visit
    *  __Contact

    * 

