

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Corporate Partners

# Connect With Students

Connect. Collaborate. Innovate.

Duke Engineering students and faculty are ready to work with industry and
alumni to generate productive solutions for today and to meet the challenges
of the future.

## Recruiting: Key Dates & Events

  * Duke's Official Academic Calendar
  * Recruiting Key Dates and Events
  * Recruiting Policies for Employers

## Hold an Information Session

Time for informal networking after the presentation is typically allowed.

  * Use the online Handshake tool to schedule your information session
  * Wait for your confirmation from the Career Center before reserving a venue
  * Reserve a venue for your session
  * Inform the Career Center of your venue confirmation

## Give a Tech Talk or Guest Lecture

Tech-talks and guest lectures are a great addition or alternative to the
standard info session.

Contact Kirsten Shaw to discuss your options.

## Connect With Student Organizations

Student clubs and organizations are always looking for opportunities to
connect with industry.

Get more details on how to connect with Duke Engineering student organizations
by contacting Kirsten Shaw.

## Digital Ads and Coffee Chats

### e-Flyers and Digital Display Ads

Advertise your engineering-related event on Pratt's digital display screens!
Submit your advertisement »

### Coffee Chats

We all know that some of the best connections are made during the “coffee
breaks” at a meeting. So why not add this to your campus activities? Please
contact kristen.shaw@duke.edu for more information about scheduling a coffee
chat with a student organization or group.

## TechConnect and Career Fairs

### TechConnect **  
**

TechConnect, Duke’s engineering and tech networking fair, is hosted by Duke's
Pratt School of Engineering and the Department of Computer Science, with
support from the Career Center. The event connects students and employers,
many of whom are Duke alumni, for networking and education in a dynamic
virtual networking environment on the Handshake event platform.

**NOTE for fall 2022:** If public health guidance allows, we hope to offer
some on-campus and in-person networking opportunities in fall 2022.

  * More about TechConnect »

### Duke Career Fair **  
**

Duke University's annual Career Fair attracts companies across all industries
including, but not limited to: business, technology, engineering, education,
and government. The Career Fair provides a great opportunity for employers,
students, and Career Center staff to meet and discuss your organization,
career opportunities, and effective recruiting strategies. By participating in
the fair, your organization will gain exposure to graduate and undergraduate
students across all majors.

  * More Information

## Senior Capstone Design & Competitions

Senior projects focus on the synthesis and application of the basic science,
mathematics, engineering and design skills taught in earlier courses. Called
‘Capstone’ courses, these culminating design classes give students a
rigorously challenging, real-world, immersive engineering experience. If your
organization is interested in running a competition (coding, product, design,)
please contact our office for more information on how to sponsor one of these
exciting courses or host a competition!

## Faculty Connections

Connections with recognized leaders in research are paramount for most
industry sectors.

To review research specific areas in Duke Engineering, visit our research page
and read some of our research news. For more information on how to connect
with Duke engineering faculty, please contact our office.

## Corporate Contact

### Kirsten Shaw

**Director of Corporate and Industry Relations**  
919-660-5533  
kirsten.shaw@duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

