

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Corporate Partners

# Corporate Partners & Sponsors

Companies that form relationships with Duke Engineering join us as Partners
and Sponsors

A **Partner** develops a mutually beneficial relationship, which may include
talent identification, campus recruiting, career events, an advisory board
seat, support of student design projects, faculty engagement and STEM-focused
campus events. We work with our Partners to prepare engineers who are inspired
and equipped for the future of design, data, research and entrepreneurship.

A **Sponsor** provides support to a specific, dedicated area of Duke
Engineering. This support advances opportunities for students, programs and
events that otherwise may not be possible. Sponsor support may be to a faculty
research laboratory, program, student organization, project, or STEM-focused
campus event.

To inquire about becoming a Partner or Sponsor, contact Kirsten Shaw.

## Partners

  * Sony
  * General Motors
  * Garmin
  * Baxter International

## Sponsors

  * Lab Society

* * *

###

###

### Sony

Sony supports Duke through its Sensing Solution University Program, which
focuses on building partnerships between Sony Developer World, Sony
Semiconductor Solutions Corporation and university research groups. Supported
projects are finding innovative ways of using Spresense and Vision Sensing
Processor microcontrollers.

The Pratt School of Engineering's Blue Devil Forest Divers, an XPRIZE
Rainforest team, is supported through Sony Semiconductor Solutions America.
The team is taking on the challenge of developing a flying drone that can
conduct rainforest research that is otherwise only possible by climbing trees
or erecting costly towers.

More at sites.duke.edu/bluedevilforestdivers »

* * *

### General Motors

As a longtime corporate partner with Duke University, General Motors
graciously supports the Pratt School of Engineering across disciplines,
programs, projects and student teams.

General Motors team members—many of whom are Duke graduates—also participate
in on-campus recruiting and mentoring, and hold positions on advisory boards.

#### Partner Projects with GM

  * First-Year Design Program
  * Duke Electric Vehicles
  * Duke Motorsports
  * Duke Robotics
  * Biomedical Engineering (BME) Design Fellows
  * Master's Certificate in Medical Device Design
  * Senior Design Project Sponsorship—AV Sensor Cleaning

* * *

### Garmin

Duke Engineering's partnership with Garmin is focused on:

      * Creating opportunities for authentic, applied student design projects
      * Providing mentorship
      * Collaboration with faculty

A couple of recent projects include wearable tech and smartwatch feature
design.

Through these projects, Garmin gains insights into the skills and preparedness
of Duke engineers as they transition into the workforce.

In addition, Garmin team members participate on advisory boards and at on-
campus recruiting events.

* * *

### Baxter International

Baxter International is the inaugural partner of the Duke Engineering
Corporate Design Partners Program.

It led the first year-long corporate-sponsored Duke Design Health project.

The Design Health Program provides an immersive learning experience where
teams actively identify, validate and prioritize problems that will impact
human health.

* * *

### Lab Society

Lab Society provides equipment and laboratory supplies to the lab team in Duke
Engineering's Department of Biomedical Engineering.

## Corporate Contact

### Kirsten Shaw

**Director of Corporate and Industry Relations**  
919-660-5533  
kirsten.shaw@duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

