

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Aaron M Kyle

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

<p><i>Aaron M. Kyle focuses on enhancing undergraduate education while
teaching First Year Design, Senior Design and Bioinstrumentation.&nbsp; Dr.
Kyle aspires to create new courses that will provide robust design experiences
for undergraduates between their first and final years of study. He is also
devising methods and researching the efficacy of&nbsp; intentionally
addressing DEI issues in design projects and engineering education.<br />
</i></p>  
<p><i>In 2014, Dr. Kyle&nbsp;created and launched the HYPOTHEKids (Hk) Maker
Lab, an NIH-funded set of programs focused on introducing underprivileged and
underrepresented minority high school students in New York City to engineering
design and biomedical research.&nbsp; As a result of this program, over 160
high school students have learned and applied a bio-engineering design
process. The program has propelled students to biomedical laboratory and
biotechnology industry internships and the pursuit of STEM majors.&nbsp; He
also guided NYC teachers in the development of engineering design-centric
courses for middle and high school students. These courses are currently being
taught in seven (7) NYC high schools, impacting over 1000 students. With his
move to Duke, Dr. Kyle will work to replicate these efforts for students and
teachers in Durham, NC, and surrounding communities.<br /> </i></p>  
<i>Dr. Kyle received his BS in Electrical Engineering from Kettering
University in '02 and his Ph.D. in Biomedical Engineering&nbsp;from Purdue
University in '07. After conducting postdoctoral research at the Indiana
University School of Medicine, he joined the faculty in BME&nbsp;at Columbia
University in 2010 where he proudly served as a Senior Lecturer for twelve
years. He moved on to the faculty at Duke University in 2022. He is a member
of Eta Kappa Nu and Tau Beta Pi engineering honor societies. He is a Fellow of
the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering and delivered
the Diversity Award Lecture at the 2020 BMES Annual Meeting</i>

## Appointments and Affiliations

<ul><li>Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering</li></ul>

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** aaron.kyle@duke.edu

## Education

<ul><li>Ph.D. Purdue University, 2007</li></ul>

## Courses Taught

<ul><li>BME 473L: Medical Device Design I</li><li>BME 474L: Medical Device
Design II</li><li>EGR 101L: Engineering Design and Communication</li></ul>

## In the News

<ul><li><a href="https://bme.duke.edu/about/news/aaron-kyle-exploring-new-
methods-diversi... Aaron Kyle: Exploring New Methods to Diversify and
Strengthen Engineering Education </a> (<span class="date">Jun 30, 2022</span>
| <span class="source">Pratt School of Engineering</span>)</li></ul>

## Representative Publications

<ul><li>Kyle, AM; Carapezza, M; Kovich, C, <em>Hk Maker Lab: An Engineering
Design Summer Program for High School Students</em>, The Journal of Stem
Outreach, vol 1 no. 1 (2018) [<a
href="http://dx.doi.org/10.15695/jstem/v1i1.5" >10.15695/jstem/v1i1.5</a>] [<a
href="https://scholars.duke.edu/individual/pub1546632" >abs</a>].</li></ul>

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

