

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Aaron D. Franklin

Addy Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Dr. Aaron Franklin received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Purdue
University in 2008 and then spent six years on the research staff at the IBM
T. J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, NY. His work at IBM focused
on low-dimensional nanoelectronics with specific emphasis on carbon nanotube
(CNT) transistors, including device scaling, transport studies, and diverse
integration approaches. While at IBM, Dr. Franklin was awarded an Outstanding
Technical Achievement recognition for his work on nanoscale CNT transistors.
He was also involved in many other projects with applications including
photovoltaics, thin-film transistors, and supercapacitors. Dr. Franklin joined
the Duke faculty in 2014.

Research in the Franklin group is focused on improving the performance and
functionality of nanomaterial-enabled electronic devices. This includes high-
performance devices from low-dimensional materials, such as 2D semiconductors,
1D carbon nanotubes, and nanowires. Also included is the low-cost realm of
printed electronics, which benefits from the incorporation of nanomaterials to
enhance electrical transport over large printed features, along with other
application-specific advantages. The primary drive of the Franklin group's
research is to improve performance of, and expand applications for, electronic
devices, including those with more custom form factors and/or functionality
(e.g., flexibility, transparency, biocompatibility, recyclability). A growing
thrust in the lab is the application of ultrasensitive, inexpensively
processed nanomaterials to electronic biosensing applications. There is an
increasing variety of new electronics applications that nanomaterials are
uniquely capable of enabling -- the Franklin group works to make such
applications possible.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Addy Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Associate Dean for Doctoral Education in the Pratt School of Engineering
  * Professor of Chemistry

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3473 Fitzpatrick CIEMAS, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 681-9471
  * **Email Address:** aaron.franklin@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Group Website

## Education

  * Ph.D. Purdue University, 2008
  * B.S.E. Arizona State University, 2004

## Research Interests

Nanomaterials in electronic devices, nanofabrication, printed electronics and
internet of things (IoT), biosensing

## Courses Taught

  * CHEM 611: Foundations of Nanoscale Science and Technology
  * ECE 230L9: Introduction to Microelectronic Devices and Circuits-Lab
  * ECE 230L: Introduction to Microelectronic Devices and Circuits
  * ECE 291: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 391: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 493: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 494: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 511: Foundations of Nanoscale Science and Technology
  * ECE 512: Emerging Nanoelectronic Devices
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * EGR 790: Special Topics in Engineering
  * NANOSCI 511: Foundations of Nanoscale Science and Technology

## In the News

  * Printed Electronics: It's For Material as Soft as Your Skin (Oct 3, 2019 |
    Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Energy Initiative Awards Seven New Seed Grants (Apr 28, 2017)
  * Aaron Franklin: Replacing Silicon Electronics with Nanomaterials (Sep 15,
    2014 | Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Cardenas, JA; Tsang, H; Tong, H; Abuzaid, H; Price, K; Cruz, MA; Wiley,
    BJ; Franklin, AD; Lazarus, N, _Flash ablation metallization of conductive
    thermoplastics_ , Additive Manufacturing, vol 36 (2020)
    [10.1016/j.addma.2020.101409] [abs].
  * Lu, S; Zheng, J; Cardenas, JA; Williams, NX; Lin, Y-C; Franklin, AD,
    _Uniform and Stable Aerosol Jet Printing of Carbon Nanotube Thin-Film
    Transistors by Ink Temperature Control._ , Acs Applied Materials &
    Interfaces, vol 12 no. 38 (2020), pp. 43083-43089 [10.1021/acsami.0c12046]
    [abs].
  * Williams, NX; Watson, N; Joh, DY; Chilkoti, A; Franklin, AD, _Aerosol jet
    printing of biological inks by ultrasonic delivery._ , Biofabrication, vol
    12 no. 2 (2020) [10.1088/1758-5090/ab5cf5] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

