

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Barry S. Myers

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Dr. Myers has been a member of the Duke faculty since 1991 and has just
completed a three-year role as Managing Director of Licensing and Ventures.
His research examines the biomechanics of head and neck injury with the goal
of injury prevention. Dr. Myers founded and directs the Coulter Foundation
Translational Partnership Program at Duke that provides $1 MM in early stage
funding and management to faculty health care innovations annually with a goal
of licensing and creating new life science start-up companies. He is also
Director of Innovation in the newly formed Duke CTSI where he is responsible
for the consult service that provides funding and project management support
to faculty translational research projects in the Duke Medical Center. Dr.
Myers created and leads a national translational research fund intended to
reduce injuries in professional football
(https://www.playsmartplaysafe.com/headhealthtech/). Taken together he
oversees over $3,000,000/year in funding for life science projects. He also
maintains an active consulting practice including the NFL-PA and NASCAR while
serving as an Executive-in-Residence at Pappas Ventures advising several
start-up companies.

Dr. Myers is considered by many as the preeminent researcher in his field
worldwide, having over 100 manuscripts and publications on the subject. Among
Dr. Myers many honors are the Stapp Award of Recognition, and the Isbrandt
Award for automotive safety from the Society of Automotive Engineers. He is
the six-time winner of the Stapp Award for research in impact biomechanics,
more than any other individual, and also the Bertil Aldman award for impact
biomechanics research. Dr. Myers has worked with all major organizations
concerned with safety in the United States including the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the
National Operating Committee on Standards for Athletic Equipment. Because of
his breadth of experience in injury prevention, Dr. Myers was appointed to the
position of Senior Scientific Advisor to the National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control for two years. He has also consulted with most major
automobile manufactures and automotive racing organizations worldwide.

Dr. Myers is a Distinguished Professor at Duke University, having received the
Bass Chair in recognition of his accomplishments in research and teaching. He
is the faculty advisor to four student best graduate student paper competition
winners at national meetings. He was responsible for the 2004 revision of the
Pratt School of Engineering undergraduate curriculum. He has served as
Director of Undergraduate Studies and Director of Graduate Studies for the
Department of Biomedical Engineering. He has also served as Senior Associate
Dean for Industrial Partnerships and the Director of the Center for
Entrepreneurship and Research Commercialization in the Pratt School of
Engineering.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Core Faculty in Innovation & Entrepreneurship
  * Bass Fellow

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Box 90281, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5150
  * **Email Address:** bsm@dm.duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke Coulter Translational Partnership
    * Google Scholar
    * http://biomechanics.bme.duke.edu

## Education

  * M.B.A. Duke University, 2004
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1991
  * M.D. Duke University School of Medicine, 1991
  * B.S. University of Toronto (Canada), 1985

## Research Interests

An expert in head and neck impact injury biomechanics, Dr. Myers is interested
in translational research innovation—overseeing programs to advance faculty
research to market.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellow. American Institute for Medical & Biological Engineering. 2008
  * Founders Award. Southern Consortium for Injury Biomechanics. 2008
  * Fellow. American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering. 2003

## In the News

  * Shedding light on cancer (Sep 12, 2017 | Duke Clinical & Translational
    Science Institute)

## Representative Publications

  * Bailey, AM; Funk, JR; Crandall, JR; Myers, BS; Arbogast, KB, _Laboratory
    Evaluation of Shell Add-On Products for American Football Helmets for
    Professional Linemen._ , Annals of Biomedical Engineering, vol 49 no. 10
    (2021), pp. 2747-2759 [10.1007/s10439-021-02842-8] [abs].
  * Kent, R; Forman, J; Bailey, A; Cormier, J; Park, G; Crandall, J; Arbogast,
    KB; Myers, B, _Surface Contact Features, Impact Obliquity, and Preimpact
    Rotational Motion in Concussive Helmet-to-Ground Impacts: Assessment via a
    New Impact Test Device._ , Annals of Biomedical Engineering, vol 48 no. 11
    (2020), pp. 2639-2651 [10.1007/s10439-020-02621-x] [abs].
  * Bailey, AM; Sanchez, EJ; Park, G; Gabler, LF; Funk, JR; Crandall, JR;
    Wonnacott, M; Withnall, C; Myers, BS; Arbogast, KB, _Development and
    Evaluation of a Test Method for Assessing the Performance of American
    Football Helmets._ , Annals of Biomedical Engineering, vol 48 no. 11
    (2020), pp. 2566-2579 [10.1007/s10439-020-02626-6] [abs].
  * Bailey, AM; McMurry, TL; Cormier, JM; Funk, JR; Crandall, JR; Mack, CD;
    Myers, BS; Arbogast, KB, _Comparison of Laboratory and On-Field
    Performance of American Football Helmets._ , Annals of Biomedical
    Engineering, vol 48 no. 11 (2020), pp. 2531-2541
    [10.1007/s10439-020-02627-5] [abs].
  * Funk, JR; Jadischke, R; Bailey, A; Crandall, J; McCarthy, J; Arbogast, K;
    Myers, B, _Laboratory Reconstructions of Concussive Helmet-to-Helmet
    Impacts in the National Football League._ , Annals of Biomedical
    Engineering, vol 48 no. 11 (2020), pp. 2652-2666
    [10.1007/s10439-020-02632-8] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

