

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Craig S. Henriquez

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

A breakdown of the normal electrical activation sequence of the heart can
sometimes lead to a state of ventricular fibrillation in which the heart
ceases to function as an effective pump. Abnormal rhythms or arrhythmias often
result after an episode of ischemia (a localized reduction of blood flow to
the heart itself) which affects both the ionic processes necessary to elicit
an impulse and the passive electrical properties of the tissue. Identifying
the complex mechanisms of arrhythmogenesis will require experimentation as
well as mathematical and computer models.

Current projects include the application of the bidomain model to diseased
tissue to investigate how changes in tissue structure (both natural and
diseased induced) and changes in ionic current flow influences the nature of
conduction and the onset of arrhythmia.

Dr. Henriquez's group is also interested in developing realistic models that
will enable investigators to better interpret electrophysiological
measurements made in the clinic. For example, activation maps at the surface
of the heart are typically constructed based on the detection of specific
features of the surface extracellular recordings. However, for complex
activation, such as might arise during an arrhythmia, the features are
difficult to distinguish.

The use of models that simulate both activation and the resulting
extracellular potential and the application of signal processing techniques
can lead to a tool for constructing more meaningful maps from experimental
recordings during abnormal conduction. This works involves direct interaction
with experimental research performed in the Experimental Electrophysiology
Laboratory under the direction of Dr. Patrick Wolf and the Cardiac
Electrophysiology & Tissue Engineering lab under the direction of Dr. Nenad
Bursac.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences
  * Bass Fellow

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 274 Hudson Hall Annex, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5168
  * **Email Address:** ch@duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1988
  * B.S. Duke University, 1981

## Research Interests

Large-scale computing, heart modeling, and brain modeling.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellow. American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering. 2008

## Courses Taught

  * BME 244L9: Quantitative Physiology with Biostatistical Applications
  * BME 244L: Quantitative Physiology with Biostatistical Applications
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 503: Computational Neuroengineering (GE, EL)
  * BME 790: Advanced Topics for Graduate Students in Biomedical Engineering
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * BME 792: Continuation of Graduate Independent Study
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * NEUROSCI 503: Computational Neuroengineering (GE, EL)

## Representative Publications

  * Nguyen, HX; Wu, T; Needs, D; Zhang, H; Perelli, RM; DeLuca, S; Yang, R;
    Tian, M; Landstrom, AP; Henriquez, C; Bursac, N, _Engineered bacterial
    voltage-gated sodium channel platform for cardiac gene therapy._ , Nature
    Communications, vol 13 no. 1 (2022) [10.1038/s41467-022-28251-6] [abs].
  * Rossi, S; Abdala, L; Woodward, A; Vavalle, JP; Henriquez, CS; Griffith,
    BE, _Rule-based definition of muscle bundles in patient-specific models of
    the left atrium._ , Frontiers in Physiology, vol 13 (2022)
    [10.3389/fphys.2022.912947] [abs].
  * Henriquez, CS; Ying, W, _The bidomain model of cardiac tissue: from
    microscale to macroscale_ (2021), pp. 211-223
    [10.1007/978-3-030-63355-4_15] [abs].
  * Pelot, NA; Catherall, DC; Thio, BJ; Titus, ND; Liang, ED; Henriquez, CS;
    Grill, WM, _Excitation properties of computational models of unmyelinated
    peripheral axons._ , Journal of Neurophysiology, vol 125 no. 1 (2021), pp.
    86-104 [10.1152/jn.00315.2020] [abs].
  * Gaeta, S; Bahnson, TD; Henriquez, C, _High-Resolution Measurement of Local
    Activation Time Differences From Bipolar Electrogram Amplitude._ ,
    Frontiers in Physiology, vol 12 (2021) [10.3389/fphys.2021.653645] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

