

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# David E. Schaad

Professor of the Practice of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Dr. David E. Schaad is a registered professional engineer in 21 states, a
Board Certified Environmental Engineer with specialties in both Hazardous
Waste Management/Site Remediation and Water Supply/Wastewater Engineering, a
Diplomate of the American Academy of Water Resources Engineers, and a licensed
contractor and a qualifier in Building, Highways and Public Utilities in the
State of North Carolina. With an undergraduate degree from Denison University,
a Masters from the University of Colorado, Boulder, and a doctorate from Duke
University, Dr. Schaad began the first stage of his career working for various
firms including: Parsons Engineering Science, Marshall Miller and Associates,
Appian Consulting Engineers, and AMEC. During that time Dr. Schaad helped lead
teams of resourceful and dedicated engineers who tackled a variety of
challenging and innovative technical projects (hazardous waste and
water/wastewater) for a diverse set of clients including the Norfolk Southern
and CSX Railway Companies, the North Carolina and Virginia Departments of
Transportation, and North Carolina State University (NCSU), among others. The
most significant project Dr. Schaad designed and managed was the remediation
of the NCSU Lot 86 National Priorities List (NPL) Site, where shallow soil
mixing was used to encapsulate approximately 11,000 cubic yards of chemical
and hazardous waste into a ten foot thick monolith about half the size of a
football field. After a successful decade and a half as a design engineer, Dr.
Schaad transitioned into investing in the next generation of leaders by
becoming a Professor of the Practice at Duke University where he could assist
future engineers in developing their design skills and ability to move from
thinking to conceptualization to implementation. In response to the December
2004 tsunami which devastated coastlines in Southeast Asia, and Hurricane
Katrina which impacted the New Orleans area, he began a new course focused on
response, rebuilding, and resilience and lead teams to both areas, with the
largest being 130 students going to St. Bernard’s Parish over the spring break
of 2006, and he continued leading teams to New Orleans every other year for a
decade since then. He helped establish Duke Engineers for International
Development (https://sites.duke.edu/deid/), which is a student group that
works in collaboration with local partners to address identified community
needs. His experiential, service-learning pedagogy has helped facilitate over
30 international (and a few domestic) projects impacting over 300 student
engineers and over a dozen communities building rain water harvesting tanks,
water distribution systems, vehicular and pedestrian bridges, health clinics
and primary schools. Dr. Schaad recently led the effort to establish a new
Certificate in Global Development Engineering, which on top of their major,
helps students broaden their global competency, establish technical depth in a
specific track, and have a mentored experiential design/construction
experience in the United States or abroad. Dr. Schaad has taught over eighty
courses at Duke and has been recognized with departmental and/or school-wide
awards for his teaching and mentoring. He currently serves as the President of
the Eastern Branch of the North Carolina Section of ASCE.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of the Practice of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Director of the Grand Challenge Scholars Program
  * Affiliate, Duke Global Health Institute
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative
  * Affiliate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 126 Hudson Hall, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5174
  * **Email Address:** david.schaad@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Certificate in Global Development Engineering
    * DIED
    * Grand Challenge Scholars Program

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1998
  * M.S. University of Colorado - Boulder, 1991
  * B.A. Denison University, 1990

## Research Interests

Sustainable engineering, community development, water and wastewater treatment
design, stormwater retention/detention and treatment design, hazardous waste
remediation, urban hydrology, constructed wetland and stream restoration
design, ecological stabilization, sustainable engineering in land development,
water resources, water and wastewater treatment.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Member. Pi Mu Epsilon National Mathematics Honorary Society. 1990
  * Member. Sigma Pi Sigma National Physics Honorary Society. 1990
  * Member. Sigma Xi Scientific Research Society. 1990

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 132L: Engineering the Planet
  * CEE 205: Practical Methods in Civil Engineering
  * CEE 315-20: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Structural Focus
  * CEE 315-60: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Environmental Focus
  * CEE 429: Integrated Structural Design
  * CEE 469: Integrated Environmental Design
  * CEE 511: Construction Management
  * CEE 649: Structural Engineering Project Management
  * CEE 679: Environmental Engineering Project Management
  * EGR 101L: Engineering Design and Communication
  * EGR 201L: Mechanics of Solids
  * ENVIRON 365-20: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Structural Focus
  * ENVIRON 365-60: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Environmental Focus
  * ENVIRON 999: Duke Environmental Leadership: Master's Project
  * PUBPOL 211-20: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Structural Focus
  * PUBPOL 211-60: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Environmental Focus
  * RIGHTS 315-20: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Structural Focus
  * RIGHTS 315-60: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Environmental Focus

## In the News

  * Building a Safe Pathway to School in Bolivia, 55 Feet in the Air (Oct 12,
    2022 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Reverse Osmosis: How Engineers Save Lives (May 12, 2021)
  * How Engineers Save Lives and Enable Human Civilization (Sep 28, 2020)
  * Engineers Building Bridges (and Other Good DEIDS) (Oct 4, 2019 | Pratt
    School of Engineering)
  * From Catching Rain to Treating Drinking Water: Engineering Student
    Projects at Home and Abroad (Nov 16, 2016 | Duke Engineering)
  * CEE Students Train to Survive the Zombie Apocalypse (Oct 24, 2016)
  * Duke Engineers Build Bridges in Rwanda (Aug 12, 2015)
  * After Texas shooting: If free speech is provocative, should there be
    limits? (May 5, 2015 | McClatchy DC)
  * Engineering on a Bed of Nails (Mar 12, 2014)
  * Engineering on a Bed of Nails (Mar 12, 2014 | Duke Today)

## Representative Publications

  * MacDonald, L; Thomas, E; Javernick-Will, A; Austin-Breneman, J; Aranda, I;
    Salvinelli, C; Klees, R; Walters, J; Parmentier, MJ; Schaad, D; Shahi, A;
    Bedell, E; Platais, G; Brown, J; Gershenson, J; Watkins, D; Obonyo, E;
    Oyanedel-Craver, V; Olson, M; Lau, R; Rao, G; Arzon, A; Krishnaswamy, K;
    Pickering, AJ; Mabey, C; Johnson, A; Gehr, R; Linden, K, _Aligning
    learning objectives and approaches in global engineering graduate
    programs: Review and recommendations by an interdisciplinary working
    group_ , Development Engineering, vol 7 (2022)
    [10.1016/j.deveng.2022.100095] [abs].
  * Huettel, L; Gustafson, MR; Nadeau, JC; Schaad, D; Barger, MM; Linnenbrink-
    Garcia, L, _A grand challenge-based framework for contextual learning in
    engineering: Impact on student outcomes and motivation_ , Asee Annual
    Conference and Exposition, Conference Proceedings, vol 122nd ASEE Annual
    Conference and Exposition: Making Value for Society no. 122nd ASEE Annual
    Conference and Exposition: Making Value for Society (2015) [abs].
  * Huettel, L; Gustafson, MR; Nadeau, JC; Schaad, DE; Barger, MM;
    Linnenbrink-Garcia, L, _Evidence for the effectiveness of a grand
    challenge-based framework for contextual learning_ , Asee Annual
    Conference and Exposition, Conference Proceedings (2014) [abs].
  * Huettel, LG; Gustafson, MR; Nadeau, JC; Schaad, D; Barger, MM;
    Linnenbrink-Garcia, L, _A grand challenge-based framework for contextual
    learning in engineering_ , Asee Annual Conference and Exposition,
    Conference Proceedings (2013) [abs].
  * Schaad, DE; Farley, J; Haynes, C, _Design and routing of storm flows in an
    urbanized watershed without surface streams_ , Journal of Hydrology, vol
    375 no. 3-4 (2009), pp. 334-344 [10.1016/j.jhydrol.2009.06.028] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

