

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# David R. Smith

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Dr. David R. Smith is currently the James B. Duke Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering Department at Duke University. He is also Director of the
Center for Metamaterials and Integrated Plasmonics at Duke and holds the
positions of Adjunct Associate Professor in the Physics Department at the
University of California, San Diego, and Visiting Professor of Physics at
Imperial College, London. Dr. Smith received his Ph.D. in 1994 in Physics from
the University of California, San Diego (UCSD). Dr. Smith's research interests
include the theory, simulation and characterization of unique electromagnetic
structures, including photonic crystals and metamaterials.

Smith is best known for his theoretical and experimental work on
electromagnetic metamaterials. Metamaterials are artificially structured
materials, whose electromagnetic properties can be tailored and tuned in ways
not easily accomplished with conventional materials. Smith has been at the
forefront in the development of numerical methods to design and characterize
metamaterials, and has also provided many of the key experiments that have
helped to illustrate the potential that metamaterials offer. Smith and his
colleagues at UCSD demonstrated the first left-handed (or negative index)
metamaterial at microwave frequencies in 2000--a material that had been
predicted theoretically more than thirty years prior by Russian physicist
Victor Veselago. No naturally occurring material or compound with a negative
index-of-refraction had ever been reported until this experiment. In 2001,
Smith and colleagues followed up with a second experiment confirming one of
Veselago's key conjectures: the 'reversal' of Snell's law. These two papers--
the first published in Physical Review Letters and the second in Science--
generated enormous interest throughout the community in the possibility of
metamaterials to extend and augment the properties of conventional materials.
Both papers have now been cited more than 3,000 times each.

Since those first metamaterial experiments, Smith has continued to study the
fundamentals and potential applications of negative index media and
metamaterials. In 2004, Smith began studying the potential of metamaterials as
a means to produce novel gradient index media. By varying the index-of-
refraction throughout a material, an entire class of optical elements (such as
lenses) can be formed. Smith showed that metamaterials could access a much
larger range of design space, since both the magnetic and the electric
properties could be graded independently. Smith and colleagues demonstrated
several versions of gradient index optics, an activity that continues in his
lab today. The introduction of controlled spatial gradients in the
electromagnetic properties of a metamaterial flows naturally into the broad
concept of transformation optics - a new electromagnetic design approach
proposed by Sir John Pendry in 2006. To illustrate of the novelty of this
design approach, Pendry, Schurig and Smith suggested in 2006 that an
'invisibility cloak' could be realized by a metamaterial implementation of a
transformation optical design. Later that same year, Smith's group at Duke
University reported the demonstration of a transformation optical designed
'invisibility cloak' at microwave frequencies. The concept of transformation
optics has since attracted the attention of the scientific community, and is
now a rapidly emerging sub-discipline in the field.

Smith's work on transformation optics has been featured in nearly every major
newspaper, including a cover story in USA Today, The New York Times, The
Chicago Tribune, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post and many more.
Smith and his work on cloaking have also been featured on television news
programs inlcuding The Today Show, Countdown with Keith Olbermann, Fox News,
CNN and MSNBC. Smith's work has also been highlighted in documentary programs
on The History Channel, The Discovery Channel, The Science Channel, the BBC
and others.

**Please also see Prof. Smith's personal website
athttp://people.ee.duke.edu/~drsmith for the most frequent updates.**

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
    Engineering
  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor of Physics
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 2527 CIEMAS Building, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5376
  * **Email Address:** drsmith@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * David R. Smith Research Group

## Education

  * Ph.D. University of California - San Diego, 1994
  * B.S. University of California - San Diego, 1988

## Research Interests

Theory, simulation and demonstration of novel electromagnetic metamaterials
across the spectrum, from microwave through optical. Applications of
metamaterials for antennas and imaging devices, with a focus on security
imaging and satellite imaging. General studies on advanced metamaterials and
plasmonics, including nonlinear optics, enhanced spontaneous emission,
negative refraction, transformation optics, electromagnetic cloaking, and many
other topics

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellow (NAI). National Academy of Inventors. 2016
  * Highly Cited Researcher. Thomson Reuters. 2014
  * Fellow. Optical Society of America. 2013
  * Descartes Prize for Research. European Union. 2008
  * Top 100 Science Accomplishments for 2006. Discover Magazine (Cloaking).
    2008
  * Top 50 Researchers. Scientific American. 2008
  * Top Ten Breakthroughs for 2003. Science Magazine (Negative Index
    Materials). 2008
  * Top Ten Breakthroughs for 2006. Science Magazine (Cloaking). 2008
  * Fellows. Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers. 1986

## Courses Taught

  * ECE 110L9: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering - Lab
  * ECE 110L: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 270DL: Fields and Waves: Fundamentals of Information Propagation
  * ECE 270L9: Fields and Waves: Fundamentals of Information Propagation (Lab)
  * ECE 291: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 391: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 495: Special Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 575: Microwave Electronic Circuits
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering

## In the News

  * Duke AI Security Screening Start-up Goes Public Via SPAC Deal (Mar 10,
    2021 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Using Microwave Patterns for a More Efficient Method to Identify Objects
    (Jan 15, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * A Crystal Ball for the Decade Ahead (Jan 9, 2020)
  * Global List of Highly Cited Puts Duke in Top Ten (Nov 19, 2019)
  * Duke Faculty Plentiful On ‘Highly Cited’ List (Nov 27, 2018)
  * Duke-Northrop Grumman Partnership Seeks to Unflatten Metamaterial Antennas
    (Sep 5, 2018 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Ricocheting Radio Waves Monitor the Tiniest Movements in a Room (Aug 6,
    2018 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Beyond Materials: From Invisibility Cloaks to Satellite Communications
    (Mar 26, 2018 | Duke Stories)
  * David Smith on How Invisibility Is No Longer the Stuff of Science Fiction
    (Oct 23, 2017)
  * Three Duke Researchers Named To National Academy Of Inventors (Dec 12,
    2016)
  * Proposed wireless charging station would make dead batteries 'a thing of
    the past' (Oct 24, 2016 | GeekWire)
  * Four Pratt Faculty Among "Most Highly Cited" (Jan 21, 2016 | Pratt School
    of Engineering)
  * Interview with David Smith: How invisibility cloaks might become real (Sep
    30, 2015 | Gizmodo)
  * Which universities are the most innovative? (Aug 20, 2015 | Times Higher
    Education)
  * Smith Named Chair of ECE (Jul 10, 2014 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Energy Deputy Secretary: Duke’s Innovative Energy Research is Essential to
    Security, Safety (Apr 24, 2014 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Intellectual Ventures spinout Evolv gets $11.8M from Bill Gates and
    others, aims to transform security scanning (Sep 4, 2013 | GeekWire)
  * Exotic optics: Metamaterial world (Aug 9, 2013 | Nature)

## Representative Publications

  * Suthakar, U; Magnoni, L; Smith, DR; Khan, A, _Optimised Lambda
    Architecture for Monitoring Scientific Infrastructure_ , Ieee Transactions
    on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol 32 no. 6 (2021), pp. 1395-1408
    [10.1109/TPDS.2017.2772241] [abs].
  * Fern, GR; Hobson, PR; Metcalfe, A; Smith, DR, _Performance of four CVD
    diamond radiation sensors at high temperature_ , Nuclear Instruments and
    Methods in Physics Research Section A: Accelerators, Spectrometers,
    Detectors and Associated Equipment, vol 958 (2020)
    [10.1016/j.nima.2019.162486] [abs].
  * Ruiz, JR; Guttenfelder, W; White, AE; Howard, NT; Candy, J; Ren, Y; Smith,
    DR; Loureiro, NF; Holland, C; Domier, CW, _Validation of gyrokinetic
    simulations of a National Spherical Torus eXperiment H-mode plasma and
    comparisons with a high-k scattering synthetic diagnostic_ , Plasma
    Physics and Controlled Fusion, vol 61 no. 11 (2019)
    [10.1088/1361-6587/ab4742] [abs].
  * Hobson, PR; Smith, DR, _A portable test-bench for real-time radiation
    damage measurements in scintillating and wavelength-shifting fibres_ ,
    2019 Ieee Nuclear Science Symposium and Medical Imaging Conference,
    Nss/Mic 2019 (2019) [10.1109/NSS/MIC42101.2019.9059764] [abs].
  * Ren, Y; Smith, DR; Zweben, SJ; Bell, R; Guttenfelder, W; Kaye, SM;
    Leblanc, BP; Mazzucato, E; Lee, KC; Domier, CW; Sun, PJ; Yuh, H,
    _Experimental observation of electron-scale turbulence evolution across
    the L-H transition in the National Spherical Torus Experiment_ , Nuclear
    Fusion, vol 59 no. 9 (2019) [10.1088/1741-4326/ab2f4f] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

