

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home Â» Faculty Profiles

# David F. Katz

Nello L. Teer, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, in the
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering

Dr. Katz's research interests emphasize methods for prophylaxis against STD's,
including topical microbicides, and for contraception. Core perspectives and
approaches include mass transport phenomena and biofluid mechanics; rheology
and imaging, both _in vitro_ and _in vivo_. These are integrated to
fundamental biological, pathological, and clinical processes and needs for
improvement.

**Context**. According to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, 40
million people worldwide are currently living with AIDS. Even 13 years ago, in
2003, 3 million people died of AIDS and 5 million new people became infected.
These epidemiological figures are not significantly improving. Prevention of
initial infection by HIV, as well as treatment of the AIDS disease, is
critical to combating this terrible worldwide pandemic. Vaccines are one type
of AIDS prevention modality, and there is much current research on them.
However, this research is expected to require about another 6 - 10 years
before efficacious products might become available, and there is no guarantee
that successful vaccines will be developed, even in this extended time frame.
An alternative prevention method is the use of topical formulations (e.g.
gels, foams, intravaginal rings, suppositories, etc.) that a woman inserts
into her reproductive tract and which prevent HIV (or other pathogens) from
initiating infection. Some of these can also be applied rectally to prevent
infection in that compartment. Academic and industrial researchers are
currently developing and evaluating a new class of compounds, termed topical
microbicides. These compounds kill or dysfunctionalize HIV or other target
pathogens upon contact in the female reproductive tract. To-date, microbicide
research has been directed almost exclusively toward discovery of new,
improved microbicidal compounds. There has been virtually no companion effort
on rational design of the formulations which women apply and which deliver
microbicides to the target pathogens. We do not yet understand what physical
and chemical properties microbicidal formulations should have in order to be
most effective in preventing infection. Objective standards for evaluation of
such formulations do not exist. The effectiveness of microbicidal formulations
depends upon their ability to coat the surfaces of the lower reproductive
tract, and to remain in place during the time when a woman is exposed to HIV.
Our research group is pioneering analysis of the physical and chemical
mechanisms responsible for such distribution and retention of microbicidal
formulations (termed deployment) and for the delivery of the microbicidal
molecules to target tissues, fluids and the pathogens themselves. This work is
being translated to practical application in the evaluation of current
candidate microbicidal formulations and in development of improved ones.

Our work also focuses upon methods of contraception, drawing upon Dr. Katz's
vast experience in working in this field and in reproductive biology and
medicine more broadly. in particular, we are working on methods, primarily for
use by women and under their control, that simultaneously provide
contraceptive protection, and protection and HIV and other sexually
transmitted pathogens, e.g. human papilloma virus (HPV) and herpes simplex
virus (HSV).

Our research on microbicidal formulation deployment and drug delivery utilizes
the methods of mechanical, chemical, electrical and optical engineering and
materials science. Our work integrates two types of research: (1) we are
undertaking fundamental studies of the mechanisms of formulation deployment
and delivery; and (2) we are imaging and analyzing the distributions of
formulations over the tissue surfaces of the lower reproductive tract in
women, and the concentrations and transport of drugs from formulations onto
and into luminal fluids and mucosal tissues. The fundamental studies have two
components: theoretical analyses of fluid mechanical and other mass transport
processes underlying deployment and drug delivery are linked to experimental
simulations (in the laboratory) of salient flow and mass transport mechanisms.
For example we developed a spectrophotometric method for analyzing microbicide
diffusion from a formulation into cervical mucus. We have built experimental
simulations of how gravity and the squeezing forces of vaginal epithelial
surfaces cause a formulation to flow over those surfaces. We have built a
simulation of how mixing of a microbicidal formulation with ambient in vivo
fluids (e.g. vaginal fluid, semen) alters the formulation's properties and,
therefore, its tendency to flow and adhere to epithelial surfaces. We also
perform experimental measurements of fundamental material properties of
formulations such as rheological and surface properties. These serve as inputs
to the theoretical models of mass transport and flow. The mathematical models
reveal particular relationships between properties of formulations and
deployment and delivery characteristics.

We also measure in women the spreading and retention in the vagina of
different vaginal formulations. Our human studies are conducted in the clinic
of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Duke Medical Center. We
apply a new, unique imaging instrument built by us, that shares some features
with the endoscopes currently used clinically to visualize some interior
regions of the body. Our instrument measures the local thickness of coating of
the vaginal surfaces with a test formulation. It detects 'bare spots' of
uncoated tissue that might be particularly vulnerable to infection. We have
also pioneered use of optical methods to measure local drug concentrations, as
they are transported from their vehicles into luminal fluids and mucosal
tissues. This latter work has initially been _in vitro._ We are currently
working to expand it to direct i _n vivo_ measurements, which will be a
breakthrough technology in analyzing mucosal drug delivery.

The above biophysics and biomedical engineering based work is also integrated
to behavioral studies of users' perceptions and preferences of different
contraceptive and STD prophylactic products. The goal is to improve
willingness to use these products, by designing them with properties and
dosage regimens that achieve their pharmacological goals simultaneously with
their user friendliness.

Collectively, our computational, _in vitro_ and _in vivo_ studies are
integrated in creating new perspective and algorithms for product design and
performance evaluation. They are currently being applied in development of a
number of products in the HIV/STD prevention and contraception pipelines.

Our research has been sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, the US
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the American Foundation for AIDS Research,
the US Agency for International Development, the Population Council, and the
CONRAD Program.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Nello L. Teer, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, in
    the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering
  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor in Obstetrics and Gynecology

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 1391 CIEMAS, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5452
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar
    * http://www.duke.edu/~dkatz

## Education

  * Ph.D. University of California - Berkeley, 1972

## Research Interests

Methods for prophylaxis against STD's, emphasizing topical microbicides and
contraception; biofluid mechanics; rheology and transport phenomena;
biophysical aspects of mammalian sperm motility, sperm transport, and
fertilization; and biomechanical functioning of the vitreous of the eye.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Klein Family Distinguished Teaching Award. Pratt School of Engineering.
    2018
  * Capers and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Teaching and Research.
    Pratt School of Engineering. 2010
  * Fellow. American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering. 1998

## Courses Taught

  * BME 394: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 528: Biofluid Mechanics (GE, BB, MC)
  * BME 563: Transport Processes in HIV Transmission and Prevention (GE, BB,
    MC)

## Representative Publications

  * Guthrie, KM; Rosen, RK; Guillen, M; Ramirez, JJ; Vargas, SE; Fava, JL;
    Ham, AS; Katz, DF; Cu-Uvin, S; Tumilty, S; Smith, KA; Buckheit, KW;
    Buckheit, RW, _Designing Dual Compartment HIV Prevention Products: Women's
    Sensory Perceptions and Experiences of Suppositories for Rectal and
    Vaginal Use._ , Aids Research and Human Retroviruses, vol 38 no. 7 (2022),
    pp. 601-610 [10.1089/aid.2021.0038] [abs].
  * Chuchuen, O; Katz, DF, _Bio-Based Materials in Anti-HIV Drug Delivery_
    (2022), pp. 181-205 [10.1002/9781119655749.ch8] [abs].
  * Woodward, J; Ranjit-Reeves, R; Katz, DF; Bernardini, FP; Fagien, S,
    _Comparing Water Absorption of Food and Drug Administration-Approved
    Hyaluronic Acid Fillers._ , Dermatologic Surgery : Official Publication
    for American Society for Dermatologic Surgery [Et Al.], vol 47 no. 9
    (2021), pp. 1237-1242 [10.1097/DSS.0000000000003108] [abs].
  * Mueller, JL; Morhard, R; DeSoto, M; Chelales, E; Yang, J; Nief, C; Crouch,
    B; Everitt, J; Previs, R; Katz, D; Ramanujam, N, _Optimizingï»¿ ethyl
    cellulose-ethanol delivery towards enabling ablation of cervical
    dysplasia._ , Scientific Reports, vol 11 no. 1 (2021)
    [10.1038/s41598-021-96223-9] [abs].
  * Wang, R; Alvarez, DA; Crouch, BT; Pilani, A; Lam, C; Zhu, C; Hughes, P;
    Katz, D; Haystead, T; Ramanujam, N, _Understanding the sources of errors
    in ex vivo Hsp90 molecular imaging for rapid-on-site breast cancer
    diagnosis._ , Biomedical Optics Express, vol 12 no. 4 (2021), pp.
    2299-2311 [10.1364/BOE.418818] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

