

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# David Needham

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Professor Needham has been at Duke since 1987 and over the years has developed
many collaborative and scholarly relationships across the campus and Medical
School. He holds Faculty and membership appointments as: Associate Professor
of Biomedical Engineering; Center for Bioinspired Materials and Material
Systems; Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering; Duke Comprehensive
Cancer Center; and the Duke Cancer Institute. Internationally, he holds a
joint appointment as Professor of Translational Therapeutics in the School of
Pharmacy, at the University of Nottingham, UK. He also collaborates with
preclinical researchers at the Erasmus University Medical Center, in
Rotterdam, NL.  
For the past 35 years Needham's Lab has developed and used a platform
technology of micropipette manipulation to manipulate single and pairs of
micro bubbles, droplets and particles in order to assess their behavior in
well-defined fluids and solution conditions. Recently his research and
development has focused on nucleation, growth and stability of nanoparticles.
Applications of these fundamental particle and interfacial studies have
primarily focused on advanced drug delivery treatments for cancer and now
COVID19 with a nasal and throat spray prophylactic and early treatment
regimen.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
    Science
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3391 Fciemas Building, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5355
  * **Email Address:** d.needham@duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. University of Nottingham (United Kingdom), 1981
  * B.S. Nottingham Trent University (United Kingdom), 1975

## Research Interests

Needham’s research and development is nothing if it is not collaborative.

Highlights:

  * Anti-cancer drug delivery inspired by how cancer's survive and spread due
    to their consumption of Lipoprotein particles from the blood-stream (LDLs
    and VLDLs) hence his approach:
  * Make the drug look like the cancer's food" Converts low solubility drugs
    ("bricks") into even lower solubility "Rocks" that can be made into
    nanoparticles of pure drug made =by the solvent exchange process, hence
    his "Bricks to Rocks technology (B2RT)
  * Explored the pH dependence of Niclosamide solubility, dissolution, and
    morphology and created a potentially universal mucin-penetrating nasal and
    throat sprays for COVID19, its viral variants and other viral infections.
  * Single micro- and nano-particle science and engineering utilizing a
    micropipette technique for single particle micromanipulation.

For the past 35 years Needham's Lab has developed and used a platform
technology of micropipette manipulation to manipulate single and pairs of
micro particles in order to assess their behavior in well-defined fluids and
solution conditions. With these techniques, he brings a wealth of expertise in
colloid and interfacial science and engineering evaluating all 3 states of
matter and their 5 interfaces, at the microscale, as micro-bubbles, -drops and
-particles. Results of these kinds of studies have impacted: bubble technology
for ultrasound; Droplet Interface Bilayers (DIBs) in collaboration with the
Hagan Bayley lab at the University of Oxford UK; as well as the
microglassification of proteins and peptides for storage, transport and use.
This technology is now being developed by his ex-graduate student now CEO and
Founder of Lindy Biosciences, Deborah Bitterfield PhD. Other industrial
collaborations arising from the micropipet studies include with Gary Fujii,
PhD, CEO and Founder of Molecular Express Inc in Los Angeles, California on a
variety of products including a new lung surfactant for respiratory distress
syndromes

Applications of these fundamental particle and interfacial studies have
primarily focused on advanced drug delivery treatments for cancer. Of note
over the past 20 years has been his invention and development of the Low-
Temperature-Sensitive Liposome system for treatment of local cancers that can
be warmed by mild hyperthermia. This 1996 invention was pre-clinically and
clinically developed with collaborators in the Duke Medical Center,
specifically with Dr. Mark Dewhirst PhD DVM (now retired) and his then
Hyperthermia Program in Radiation Oncology and the Duke Cancer Institute and
licensed to Celsion Corporation.

Recently his research and development has focused on nanoparticles, again for
anti-cancer applications. Recognizing that cancers are known to “feed” on Low
Density Lipoprotein (LDL) particles (--sub microscopic nanoparticles composed
of fat and protein) from the blood stream, his new strategy is to “make the
drug look like the cancer’s food”. The new technology turns the low solubility
“bricks” of the pharmaceutical industry, that are very difficult to administer
in effective doses by oral tablets, and turns them into much less soluble
“rocks” so that they can be made into the LDL-sized nanoparticles for
intravenous delivery. This work is in close collaboration with his colleague,
Dave Gooden PhD, Director of the Duke Small Molecule Synthesis Facility; hence
their “Bricks-to-Rocks Technology (B2RT). Here, in collaboration, with Will
Eward DVM, MD Dept of Surgical Oncology and Ivan Spasojevic, PhD, Director of
the PK/PD core, they have pioneered testing this new kind of anti-cancer drug
nanoparticle. It has already shown positive results in a lung-metastatic mouse
model of Osteosarcoma, as well as in a recent feasibility trial in canine
patients with Steve Suter VMD, MS, PhD, DACVIM and colleagues at the NC State
Veterinary School.

Finally, over the past year, responding to the COVID19 pandemic, Needham has
developed 11 provisional patent applications and one in particular is now
forming the basis for a new nasal and throat spray that is intended for use as
a Prophylactic-Preventative and in early treatment of COVID19. This work is
being carried out in a new collaboration with Christina BArkauskas, Assistant
Professor in Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, along with Dr
Patty Lee and her lab. Together they are actively pursuing Investigational New
Drug (IND) studies required to advance the new spray to testing in patients.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Doctor of Science. University of Nottingham. 2015
  * Honorary Professor. School of Pharmacy, Nottingham University, Nottingham,
    UK. 2014
  * Hans Christian Andersen Academy Professor. University Southern Denmark,
    Odense, Denmark. 2012
  * Niels Bohr Professorship,. Danish National Research Foundation, Denmark.
    2012
  * VELUX Visiting Professor Program. VELUX Foundation. 2011
  * Visiting Professor, MEMPHYS/MultiCaps. University of Southern Denmark,
    Denmark. 2011
  * Participant: Series of Workshops and Tutorials on “Cells and Materials at
    the Interface between Mathematics, Biology and Engineering”. Institute for
    Pure and Applied Math, UCLA. 2006
  * National Academy of Sciences Committee on Biomolecular Materials and
    Processes. Board on Physics and Astronomy National Research Council, the
    National Academies . 2006
  * Participant, “Blue Sky Committee” . Duke University. 2006
  * Alfred M. Hunt Faculty Scholarship. Duke University. 1988
  * Recipient F.I.R.S.T. Award. National Institutes of Health. 1988
  * NATO/SERC (England) Fellowship. NATO/SERC . 1983
  * Oppenheimer Research Fellowship. Cambridge University. 1982

## Courses Taught

  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering

## In the News

  * Simple pH Adjustment May Enable a Preventative COVID-19 Nasal and Throat
    Spray (Jan 12, 2022 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Developing New Strategies for Cancer Drug Delivery, in Denmark and at Duke
    (Jan 12, 2017)
  * David Needham Named Honorary Professor of Pharmacy at the University of
    Nottingham (Jul 18, 2014)

## Representative Publications

  * Needham, D; Kinoshita, K; Utoft, A, _Micro-Surface and -Interfacial
    Tensions Measured Using the Micropipette Technique: Applications in
    Ultrasound-Microbubbles, Oil-Recovery, Lung-Surfactants,
    Nanoprecipitation, and Microfluidics._ , Micromachines, vol 10 no. 2
    (2019) [10.3390/mi10020105] [abs].
  * Needham, D; Arslanagic, A; Glud, K; Hervella, P; Karimi, L; Høeilund-
    Carlsen, P-F; Kinoshita, K; Mollenhauer, J; Parra, E; Utoft, A; Walke, P,
    _Bottom up design of nanoparticles for anti-cancer diapeutics: "put the
    drug in the cancer's food"._ , Journal of Drug Targeting, vol 24 no. 9
    (2016), pp. 836-856 [10.1080/1061186x.2016.1238092] [abs].
  * Needham, D; Park, J-Y; Wright, AM; Tong, J, _Materials characterization of
    the low temperature sensitive liposome (LTSL): effects of the lipid
    composition (lysolipid and DSPE-PEG2000) on the thermal transition and
    release of doxorubicin_ , Faraday Discussions, vol 161 (2013), pp. 515-534
    [10.1039/c2fd20111a] [abs].
  * Manzoor, AA; Lindner, LH; Landon, CD; Park, J-Y; Simnick, AJ; Dreher, MR;
    Das, S; Hanna, G; Park, W; Chilkoti, A; Koning, GA; ten Hagen, TLM;
    Needham, D; Dewhirst, MW, _Overcoming limitations in nanoparticle drug
    delivery: triggered, intravascular release to improve drug penetration
    into tumors._ , Cancer Res, vol 72 no. 21 (2012), pp. 5566-5575
    [10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-12-1683] [abs].
  * Needham, D; Dewhirst, MW, _The development and testing of a new
    temperature-sensitive drug delivery system for the treatment of solid
    tumors._ , Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews, vol 53 no. 3 (2001), pp.
    285-305 [10.1016/s0169-409x(01)00233-2] [abs].
  * Olbrich, K; Rawicz, W; Needham, D; Evans, E, _Water permeability and
    mechanical strength of polyunsaturated lipid bilayers._ , Biophysical
    Journal, vol 79 no. 1 (2000), pp. 321-327 [10.1016/S0006-3495(00)76294-1]
    [abs].
  * Rawicz, W; Olbrich, KC; McIntosh, T; Needham, D; Evans, E, _Effect of
    chain length and unsaturation on elasticity of lipid bilayers._ ,
    Biophysical Journal, vol 79 no. 1 (2000), pp. 328-339
    [10.1016/S0006-3495(00)76295-3] [abs].
  * Needham, D; Anyarambhatla, G; Kong, G; Dewhirst, MW, _A new temperature-
    sensitive liposome for use with mild hyperthermia: characterization and
    testing in a human tumor xenograft model._ , Cancer Research, vol 60 no. 5
    (2000), pp. 1197-1201 [abs].
  * Lasic, DD; Needham, D, _The "Stealth" liposome: A prototypical
    biomaterial_ , Chemical Reviews, vol 95 no. 8 (1995), pp. 2601-2628 [abs].
  * Needham, D; Nunn, RS, _Elastic deformation and failure of lipid bilayer
    membranes containing cholesterol._ , Biophysical Journal, vol 58 no. 4
    (1990), pp. 997-1009 [10.1016/S0006-3495(90)82444-9] [abs].
  * Evans, E; Needham, D, _Physical properties of surfactant bilayer
    membranes: Thermal transitions, elasticity, rigidity, cohesion, and
    colloidal interactions_ , The Journal of Physical Chemistry, vol 91 no. 16
    (1987), pp. 4219-4228 [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

