

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Donald B. Bliss

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Professor Bliss has broad research interests in fluid mechanics, aerodynamics,
acoustics, and structural dynamics. His work emphasizes improved
understandings of physical phenomena and the development of innovative ways to
solve important engineering problems. Professor Bliss recently developed a
general analysis method called Analytical/Numerical matching (ANM) that
combines numerical and analytical solutions to gain accuracy and computational
efficiency. ANM is currently being applied to a variety of problems in
aerodynamics and structural acoustics.

Much of Professor Bliss' research on fluid flows involves the aerodynamics of
lifting surfaces and vortex wakes. For helicopter wakes he has developed
curved vortex elements, constant vorticity contour wake models, and influence
coefficient techniques. In collaboration with a private company, these have
been incorporated into commercially available computer programs used by
industry and government to predict helicopter performance, vibration, and
noise. Currently, ANM is being used to develop a new unified treatment of
lifting surfaces and wakes in unsteady compressible flow. Professor Bliss is
also developing a new vortex roll-up analysis, and using ANM to study
helicopter blade/vortex interaction.

In acoustics, Professor Bliss' primary effort is in the application of ANM to
structural acoustics, particularly to acoustic scattering from submerged
elastic bodies with structural discontinuities. He has also developed a method
called Alternate Resonance Tuning (ART) to prevent low frequency sound
transmission into flexible wall enclosures, with applications to aircraft
interior noise. He also conducts research on mathematical homogenization
applied to structural acoustic systems, and on general boundary conditions for
bulk-reacting sound absorbing surfaces.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 148B Engineering Bldg, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5315
  * **Email Address:** donald.bliss@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * AeroElasticity Group
    * Bliss Lab

## Education

  * Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1973
  * M.S. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1970
  * B.S.E. Princeton University, 1968

## Research Interests

Fluid mechanics, aerodynamics, acoustics, and structural dynamics

## Courses Taught

  * ME 472: Aircraft Performance
  * ME 491: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 492: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 536: Compressible Fluid Flow
  * ME 571: Aerodynamics
  * ME 572: Engineering Acoustics
  * ME 591: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 592: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 676: Advanced Acoustics

## In the News

  * The Sky's the Limit for Duke Engineers Designing the Safest, Most Cost-
    Efficient Aircraft and Turbomachinery (May 24, 2021 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Su, K; Bliss, D, _A numerical study of tilt-based wake steering using a
    hybrid free-wake method_ , Wind Energy, vol 23 no. 2 (2020), pp. 258-273
    [10.1002/we.2426] [abs].
  * Raudales, D; Bliss, DB; Michalis, KA; Rouse, JW; Franzoni, LP, _Benchmark
    analytical solutions for steady state high frequency broadband sound
    fields in three rectangular enclosures._ , The Journal of the Acoustical
    Society of America, vol 145 no. 4 (2019) [10.1121/1.5095771] [abs].
  * Su, K; Bliss, D, _A novel hybrid free-wake model for wind turbine
    performance and wake evolution_ , Renewable Energy, vol 131 (2019), pp.
    977-992 [10.1016/j.renene.2018.07.108] [abs].
  * Su, K; Bliss, DB, _A hybrid free wake simulation comparison of turbine
    wake steering with innovative turbine designs_ , Proceedings of the Asme
    Turbo Expo, vol 9 (2017) [10.1115/GT2017-64105] [abs].
  * Su, K; Bliss, D, _Wind farm performance improvement by using wake
    transport_ , Annual Forum Proceedings Ahs International, vol 4 (2016), pp.
    3498-3509 [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

