

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Gabriel G. Katul

Theodore S. Coile Distinguished Professor of Hydrology and Micrometeorology

**Gabriel G. Katul** received his B.E. degree in 1988 at the American
University of Beirut (Beirut, Lebanon), his M.S. degree in 1990 at Oregon
State University (Corvallis, OR) and his Ph.D degree in 1993 at the University
of California in Davis (Davis, CA). He currently holds the Theodore S. Coile
Professor __of Hydrology and Micrometeorology at the Nicholas School of the
Environment and at the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at
Duke University (Durham, NC). He was a visiting fellow at University of
Virginia (USA) in 1997, the Commonwealth Science and Industrial Research
Organization (Australia) in 2002, the University of Helsinki (Finland) in
2009, the FulBright-Italy Distinguished Fellow at Politecnico di Torino
(Italy) in 2010, the École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne (Switzerland) in
2013, Nagoya University (Japan) in 2014, University of Helsinki (Finland) in
2017, the Karlsruher Institute for Technology (Germany) in 2017, and Princeton
University (USA) in 2020. He received several honorary awards, including an
honorary certificate by La Seccion de Agrofisica de la Sociedad Cubana de
Fisica in Habana (in 1998), the Macelwane medal and became thereafter a fellow
of the American Geophysical Union (in 2002), the editor’s citation for
excellence in refereeing from the American Geophysical Union (in 2008), the
Hydrologic Science Award from the American Geophysical Union (in 2012), the
John Dalton medal from the European Geosciences Union (in 2018), and the
Outstanding Achievements in Biometeorology Award from the American
Meteorological Society (in 2021). Katul was elected to the National Academy of
Engineering (in 2023) for his contributions in eco-hydrology and environmental
fluid mechanics. He served as the Secretary General for the Hydrologic Science
Section at the American Geophysical Union (2006-2008). Research in Katul's lab
focuses on micro-meteorology and near-surface hydrology with emphasis on heat,
momentum, carbon dioxide, water vapor, ozone, particulate matter (including
aerosols, pollen, and seeds) and water transport in the soil-plant-atmosphere
system as well as their implications to a plethora of hydrological,
ecological, atmospheric and climate change related problems.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Theodore S. Coile Distinguished Professor of Hydrology and
    Micrometeorology
  * Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Professor in the Division of Earth and Ocean Sciences
  * Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
    121 Hudson Hall, Box 90287, Durham, NC 27708-0287
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 613-8033
  * **Email Address:** gaby@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar
    * Personal Webpage
    * Publons

## Education

  * Ph.D. University of California - Davis, 1993

## Research Interests

Describing the reciprocal influences between the biosphere and the atmosphere
are becoming a scientific imperative as human-induced changes in land surface
characteristics are impacting the composition of the atmosphere, which in turn
is threatening to excite changes in weather and climate systems. The
concentration of efforts to quantify these influences and to develop a
predictive framework for them has given rise to a new research field labelled
"land-atmosphere exchange". This field is now populated by a community of
scientists and engineers originally trained in a cross-section of disciplines.
My particular research interests in this domain cover mass, momentum, and
energy transfer within the soil-plant-atmosphere system. This domain
intersects micro-meteorology, surface hydrology, ecology and carbon/water
cycling, and fluid dynamics that spans low and high Reynolds numbers.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Membership (NAE). National Academy of Engineering. 2023
  * Award for Outstanding Achievement in Biometeorology. American
    Meteorological Society. 2021
  * John Dalton Medal. European Geosciences Union. 2018
  * Norbert Gerbier-Mumm International Award. World Meteorological
    Organization. 2012
  * Hydrologic Sciences Award. American Geophysical Union. 2012
  * Scientific and Technological Achievement Award. United States
    Environmental Protection Agency. 2012
  * Fulbright Distinguished Chair (Torino, Italy). Council for International
    Exchange of Scholars. 2010
  * Fellow of the American Geophysical Union. American Geophysical Union. 2002
  * James B. Macelwane Medalists. American Geophysical Union. 2002
  * Inspirational Teaching. The Students of the Nicholas School of the
    Environment. 1994

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 393: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 394: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 463L: Water Resources Engineering
  * CEE 490: Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 692: Independent Study: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental
    Engineering
  * CEE 780: Internship
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * ENVIRON 380: The Calculus of Sustainability - Lessons from Complex
    Societies
  * ENVIRON 391: Independent Study
  * ENVIRON 393: Research Independent Study
  * ENVIRON 593: Independent Studies and Projects
  * ENVIRON 734L: Watershed Hydrology
  * ENVIRON 899: Master's Project

## In the News

  * Katul Elected a Fellow of the National Academy of Engineering (Feb 10,
    2023 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Welcome the Pratt School New Faculty (Oct 26, 2021 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Statistics Say Large Pandemics Are More Likely Than We Thought (Aug 23,
    2021 | Duke Global Health Institute)
  * Window for Slowing COVID’s Spread Was Smaller than Projected (Sep 28, 2020
    | Nicholas School of the Environment)
  * Researchers Develop Tool to Diagnose Dying Forests (Oct 11, 2019 | Duke
    University Press)
  * Researchers develop tool to diagnose dying forests (Oct 8, 2019 |
    Phys.org)
  * No One-Size-Fits-All Way to Combat Urban Heat Island Effect (Sep 20, 2019
    | Earth and Space Science News - American Geophysical Union EOS Magazine)
  * Solutions to urban heat differ between tropical and drier climate (Sep 5,
    2019 | Scienceblog)
  * Natural ways of cooling cities  (Sep 4, 2019 | EurekAlert, AAAS)
  * Wind Speed Governs Turbulence in Atmospheric Inversions (Sep 21, 2018 |
    EOS.org American Geophysical Union, Research Spotlight)
  * Water Resources Interview - The world this morning or Alam Alsabah (Dec
    27, 2017 | Future TV Network, Lebanon - in Arabic/English)
  * Water Resources Interview - Raghem kul shaik or Despite Everything (Dec
    12, 2017 | Murr Television Station, Lebanon - in Arabic/English)
  * Tenfold Jump in Green Tech Needed to Meet Global Emissions Targets (Jan 3,
    2017 | Duke University News. Also by phys.org, earth.com, EurekAlert,
    Science World Report, The Economic Times, EconoTimes, Iran daily, Clean
    Malaysia, GreenBiz.com, wattsupwiththat.com.)
  * Climate, Not Conflict, Explains Extreme Middle East Dust Storm (Nov 15,
    2016)
  * Soil Crusts Play a Dual Role in Desertification (Feb 16, 2016 | EOS.org
    American Geophysical Union, Research Spotlight)
  * Climate Variability Across Scales Affects Ecosystems over Time (Nov 19,
    2015 | EOS.org American Geophysical Union, Research Spotlight)
  * Population Could Outpace Water By Mid-Century (Mar 31, 2015)
  * Microbial activity in dry soils (Jan 16, 2015 | Geophysical Research
    Letter, American Geophysical Union, Journal Spotlight)
  * A simple model to calculate when drought causes plants to die (Jun 24,
    2014 | Water Resources Research, American Geophysical Union, Journal
    Spotlight)
  * Winds Strengthened Global Warming May Disperse Seeds, Pollen Farther (Oct
    18, 2009 | Duke University News)
  * Land use changes in southeastern United States help to cool regional
    surface temperatures (Dec 31, 2007 | Geophysical Research Letter, American
    Geophysical Union, Journal Spotlight, EurekAlert, AAAS in
    www.sciencemag.org vol.318 Dec. 7 2007)
  * Moratorium on GM Trees (Feb 18, 2007 | Science in Society)
  * Mechanistic analytical models for long-distance seed dispersal by wind
    (Aug 5, 2005 | EurekAlert, AAAS, American Society of Naturalists -
    University of Chicago Press )

## Representative Publications

  * Katul, GG; Manes, C; Porporato, A; Bou-Zeid, E; Chamecki, M, _Bottlenecks
    in turbulent kinetic energy spectra predicted from structure function
    inflections using the Von Kármán-Howarth equation._ , Physical Review. E,
    Statistical, Nonlinear, and Soft Matter Physics, vol 92 no. 3 (2015)
    [10.1103/physreve.92.033009] [abs].
  * Katul, GG; Porporato, A; Shah, S; Bou-Zeid, E, _Two phenomenological
    constants explain similarity laws in stably stratified turbulence._ ,
    Physical Review. E, Statistical, Nonlinear, and Soft Matter Physics, vol
    89 no. 2 (2014) [10.1103/physreve.89.023007] [abs].
  * Manzoni, S; Vico, G; Palmroth, S; Porporato, A; Katul, G, _Optimization of
    stomatal conductance for maximum carbon gain under dynamic soil moisture_
    , Advances in Water Resources, vol 62 no. PA (2013), pp. 90-105
    [10.1016/j.advwatres.2013.09.020] [abs].
  * Katul, GG; Porporato, A; Manes, C; Meneveau, C, _Co-spectrum and mean
    velocity in turbulent boundary layers_ , Physics of Fluids, vol 25 no. 9
    (2013) [10.1063/1.4821997] [abs].
  * Manzoni, S; Vico, G; Katul, G; Palmroth, S; Jackson, RB; Porporato, A,
    _Hydraulic limits on maximum plant transpiration and the emergence of the
    safety-efficiency trade-off._ , The New Phytologist, vol 198 no. 1 (2013),
    pp. 169-178 [10.1111/nph.12126] [abs].
  * Katul, GG; Konings, AG; Porporato, A, _Mean velocity profile in a sheared
    and thermally stratified atmospheric boundary layer._ , Phys Rev Lett, vol
    107 no. 26 (2011) [10.1103/PhysRevLett.107.268502] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

