

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Josiah D. Knight

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Josiah Knight, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, is Co-Director
of the Energy and Environment Certificate, a program that prepares students to
confront complex problems in providing safe, clean, reliable and affordable
energy. The curriculum brings together students from arts and sciences as well
as engineering in a series of courses spanning natural science, social science
and technology, culminating in a capstone course in which multidisciplinary
teams design, build, test and evaluate energy system prototypes. In the
process, students learn to communicate across a spectrum of backgrounds and
interests, as they must do to address energy problems in the larger world.

Knight's current research interests are in solar thermal energy and alternate
propulsion methods for ground transportation. Solar thermal energy, in
addition to direct uses for space, water and industrial heating, has been
shown to be an efficient means of electricity generation. Much progress has
been made in recent years on fault-tolerant solar thermal collectors, and
integration of such systems with distributed power generation is a promising
path toward low-carbon electricity.

Alternatives to the gasoline and diesel internal combustion engine have
potential to expand the range of fuels that can be efficiently used for
transportation and stationary power. A major issue in the development of
biofuels for ICEs is that much of the heating value of the biomass is consumed
in transforming the solids to liquid fuels. Burning solid biomass directly
delivers greater net energy, but must be done in external combustion. Activity
in this area is presently focused on optimizing performance of external
combustion engines by using adaptive intake and exhaust porting and closed-
loop valve control. The area is rich in both applied and basic questions that
couple thermodynamics and electro-mechanical dynamics in nonlinear regimes.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 175 Hudson Hall, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5337
  * **Email Address:** jknight@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**

## Education

  * Ph.D. University of Virginia, 1986
  * M.S. University of Virginia, 1982
  * B.S. University of Virginia, 1980

## Research Interests

Fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, and dynamics

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * P.M. Ku Award. Society of Tribologists and Lubrication Engineers. 2005

## Courses Taught

  * EGR 424L: Energy and Environment Design
  * ENERGY 310: Introduction to Energy Generation, Delivery, Conversion and
    Efficiency
  * ENERGY 395-1: Connections in Energy: Interdisciplinary Team Projects
  * ENERGY 396: Connections in Energy: Interdisciplinary Team Projects
  * ENERGY 396T: Bass Connections Energy & Environment Research Team
  * ENERGY 795-1: Connections in Energy: Interdisciplinary Team Projects
  * ENERGY 796: Connections in Energy: Interdisciplinary Team Projects
  * ENERGY 796T: Bass Connections Energy & Environment Research Team
  * ENRGYEGR 310: Introduction to Energy Generation, Delivery, Conversion and
    Efficiency
  * ME 331L: Thermodynamics
  * ME 461: Energy Engineering and the Environment
  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering

## In the News

  * Energy Initiative-Supported Project Connects Brain Science with Electric
    Cars (Aug 23, 2017)
  * Interdisciplinary Teams Take a Hands-on Approach to Energy Innovations
    (Dec 2, 2015)
  * Bass Connections Goes to Detroit (Jul 18, 2014)

## Representative Publications

  * Plaut, RH; Virgin, LN; Knight, JD, _Predicting critical speeds in various
    rotordynamics problems_ , Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical
    Engineers, Part C: Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science, vol 231 no.
    21 (2017), pp. 3913-3922 [10.1177/0954406216659680] [abs].
  * Knight, JD; Virgin, LN; Plaut, RH, _Predicting Critical Speeds in
    Rotordynamics: A New Method_ , Journal of Physics: Conference Series, vol
    744 no. 1 (2016) [10.1088/1742-6596/744/1/012155] [abs].
  * Virgin, LN; Knight, JD; Plaut, RH, _A New Method for Predicting Critical
    Speeds in Rotordynamics_ , Journal of Engineering for Gas Turbines and
    Power, vol 138 no. 2 (2016) [10.1115/1.4031308] [abs].
  * Richter, DD; Jenkins, DH; Karakash, JT; Knight, J; McCreery, LR;
    Nemestothy, KP, _Resource policy. Wood energy in America._ , Science (New
    York, N.Y.), vol 323 no. 5920 (2009), pp. 1432-1433
    [10.1126/science.1166214] [abs].
  * Richter, DDBJ; Jenkins, DH; Karakash, JT; Knight, J; Mccreery, LR;
    Nemestothy, KP, _Wood Energy: The Dangers of Combustion Response_ ,
    Science (New York, N.Y.), vol 324 no. 5933 (2009), pp. 1390-1391
    [10.1126/science.324_1390b] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

