

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Junjie Yao

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Our mission at PI-Lab is to develop state-of-the-art photoacoustic tomography
(PAT) technologies and translate PAT advances into diagnostic and therapeutic
applications, especially in functional brain imaging and early cancer
theranostics. PAT is the most sensitive modality for imaging rich optical
absorption contrast over a wide range of spatial scales at high speed, and is
one of the fastest growing biomedical imaging technologies. Using numerous
endogenous and exogenous contrasts, PAT can provide high-resolution images at
scales covering organelles, cells, tissues, organs, small-animal organisms, up
to humans, and can reveal tissue’s anatomical, functional, metabolic, and even
histologic properties, with molecular and neuronal specificity.

At PI-Lab, we develop PAT technologies with novel and advanced imaging
performance, in terms of spatial resolutions, imaging speed, penetration
depth, detection sensitivity, and functionality. We are interested with all
aspects of PAT technology innovations, including efficient light illumination,
high-sensitivity ultrasonic detection, super-resolution PAT, high-speed
imaging acquisition, novel PA genetic contrast, and precise image
reconstruction. On top of the technological advancements, we are devoted to
serve the broad life science and medical communities with matching PAT systems
for various research and clinical needs. With its unique contrast mechanism,
high scalability, and inherent functional and molecular imaging capabilities,
PAT is well suited for a variety of pre-clinical applications, especially for
studying tumor angiogenesis, cancer hypoxia, and brain disorders; it is also a
promising tool for clinical applications in procedures such as cancer
screening, melanoma staging, and endoscopic examination.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Hudson Hall Annex 261, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 681-0694
  * **Email Address:** junjie.yao@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke Photoacoustics Lab website
    * Google Scholar

## Education

  * Ph.D. Washington University in St. Louis, 2012

## Research Interests

Photoacoustic tomography (PAT) technologies, and translating PAT advances into
diagnostic and therapeutic applications, especially in functional brain
imaging and early cancer theranostics.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Early Career Development (CAREER) Award. National Science Foundation
    (NSF). 2022
  * Fellow. Optica (formally OSA). 2022
  * 2019 Young Investigator Award. IEEE Photonics Society . 2019
  * Collaborative Sciences Award. American Heart Association . 2018
  * OSA/Quantel Bright Idea Competition (Finalist). Optical Society of
    America. 2017
  * Seno Medical Best Paper Award. SPIE conference Photons Plus Ultrasound
    2016: Imaging and Sensing. 2016
  * Seno Medical Best Paper Award. SPIE conference Photons Plus Ultrasound
    2015: Imaging and Sensing . 2015
  * Seno Medical Best Paper Award. SPIE conference Photons Plus Ultrasound
    2013: Imaging and Sensing . 2013
  * Chinese Government Award for Outstanding Self-financed Students Aboard.
    The Education Ministry of China. 2012
  * Best Master Dissertation Award. Tsinghua University. 2008
  * Comprehensive Student Fellowship. Tsinghua University. 2008
  * KangShien Outstanding Graduate Fellowship. Tsinghua University. 2006
  * CyrusTang Fellowship (2002-2006). Tsinghua University. 2002

## Courses Taught

  * BME 303L: Modern Diagnostic Imaging Systems (AC or GE)
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 553: Deep Tissue Optics (GE, IM)
  * BME 590: Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering
  * BME 790L: Advanced Topics with the Lab for Graduate Students in Biomedical
    Engineering
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * BME 792: Continuation of Graduate Independent Study

## In the News

  * Glassfrogs Hide Red Blood Cells in Their Liver to Become Transparent (Jan
    3, 2023 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Using Light and Sound to Reveal Rapid Brain Activity in Unprecedented
    Detail (May 31, 2022 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Yao Receives NSF CAREER Award to Monitor the Brain Using Photoacoustic
    Imaging (Jan 24, 2022 | Duke Engineering News)
  * Check This Out: The Brain During a Heart Attack (Nov 12, 2020)
  * Novel Light and Sound Imaging Could Greatly Enhance Cancer Therapies (Feb
    13, 2019 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Listening to Blood (Jul 27, 2018 | Duke University School of Medicine
    Alumni News Magazine)
  * Lasers Make Sound Waves That Reveal Live Views of Organs in Action (May
    10, 2017 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Junjie Yao: Listening into the Body through Light (Oct 30, 2016)

## Representative Publications

  * Li, M; Beaumont, N; Ma, C; Rojas, J; Vu, T; Harlacher, M; O'Connell, G;
    Gessner, RC; Kilian, H; Kasatkina, L; Chen, Y; Huang, Q; Shen, X; Lovell,
    JF; Verkhusha, VV; Czernuszewicz, T; Yao, J, _Three-Dimensional Deep-
    Tissue Functional and Molecular Imaging by Integrated Photoacoustic,
    Ultrasound, and Angiographic Tomography (PAUSAT)._ , Ieee Transactions on
    Medical Imaging, vol 41 no. 10 (2022), pp. 2704-2714
    [10.1109/tmi.2022.3168859] [abs].
  * Chen, J; Li, D; Yu, W; Ma, Z; Li, C; Xiang, G; Wu, Y; Yao, J; Zhong, P,
    _The Effects of Scanning Speed and Standoff Distance of the Fiber on
    Dusting Efficiency during Short Pulse Holmium: YAG Laser Lithotripsy._ ,
    Journal of Clinical Medicine, vol 11 no. 17 (2022) [10.3390/jcm11175048]
    [abs].
  * Zhang, H; Bo, W; Wang, D; DiSpirito, A; Huang, C; Nyayapathi, N; Zheng, E;
    Vu, T; Gong, Y; Yao, J; Xu, W; Xia, J, _Deep-E: A Fully-Dense Neural
    Network for Improving the Elevation Resolution in Linear-Array-Based
    Photoacoustic Tomography._ , Ieee Transactions on Medical Imaging, vol 41
    no. 5 (2022), pp. 1279-1288 [10.1109/tmi.2021.3137060] [abs].
  * Tang, Y; Wu, H; Klippel, P; Zhang, B; Huang, H-YS; Jing, Y; Jiang, X; Yao,
    J, _Deep thrombosis characterization using photoacoustic imaging with
    intravascular light delivery._ , Biomedical Engineering Letters, vol 12
    no. 2 (2022), pp. 135-145 [10.1007/s13534-022-00216-0] [abs].
  * Kasatkina, LA; Ma, C; Matlashov, ME; Vu, T; Li, M; Kaberniuk, AA; Yao, J;
    Verkhusha, VV, _Optogenetic manipulation and photoacoustic imaging using a
    near-infrared transgenic mouse model._ , Nature Communications, vol 13 no.
    1 (2022) [10.1038/s41467-022-30547-6] [abs].
  * Duan, T; Peng, X; Chen, M; Zhang, D; Gao, F; Yao, J, _Detection of weak
    optical absorption by optical-resolution photoacoustic microscopy._ ,
    Photoacoustics, vol 25 (2022) [10.1016/j.pacs.2022.100335] [abs].
  * Dong, B; Yao, J; Deán-Ben, XL, _Editorial: Advances in Photoacoustic
    Neuroimaging._ , Frontiers in Neuroscience, vol 16 (2022)
    [10.3389/fnins.2022.859515] [abs].
  * Li, M; Gu, J; Vu, T; Sankin, G; Zhong, P; Yao, J; Jing, Y, _Time-Resolved
    Passive Cavitation Mapping Using the Transient Angular Spectrum Approach._
    , Ieee Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control,
    vol 68 no. 7 (2021), pp. 2361-2369 [10.1109/tuffc.2021.3062357] [abs].
  * Zhang, D; Li, R; Chen, M; Vu, T; Sheng, H; Yang, W; Hoffmann, U; Luo, J;
    Yao, J, _Photoacoustic imaging of in vivo hemodynamic responses to sodium
    nitroprusside._ , J Biophotonics, vol 14 no. 7 (2021)
    [10.1002/jbio.202000478] [abs].
  * Tang, Y; Yao, J, _3D Monte Carlo simulation of light distribution in mouse
    brain in quantitative photoacoustic computed tomography._ , Quantitative
    Imaging in Medicine and Surgery, vol 11 no. 3 (2021), pp. 1046-1059
    [10.21037/qims-20-815] [abs].
  * DiSpirito, A; Li, D; Vu, T; Chen, M; Zhang, D; Luo, J; Horstmeyer, R; Yao,
    J, _Reconstructing Undersampled Photoacoustic Microscopy Images Using Deep
    Learning._ , Ieee Transactions on Medical Imaging, vol 40 no. 2 (2021),
    pp. 562-570 [10.1109/tmi.2020.3031541] [abs].
  * Li, M; Sankin, G; Vu, T; Yao, J; Zhong, P, _Tri-modality cavitation
    mapping in shock wave lithotripsy._ , The Journal of the Acoustical
    Society of America, vol 149 no. 2 (2021) [10.1121/10.0003555] [abs].
  * Li, M; Vu, T; Sankin, G; Winship, B; Boydston, K; Terry, R; Zhong, P; Yao,
    J, _Internal-Illumination Photoacoustic Tomography Enhanced by a Graded-
    Scattering Fiber Diffuser._ , Ieee Transactions on Medical Imaging, vol 40
    no. 1 (2021), pp. 346-356 [10.1109/tmi.2020.3027199] [abs].
  * III, AD; Li, D; Vu, T; Chen, M; Zhang, D; Luo, J; Horstmeyer, R; Yao, J,
    _Reconstructing Undersampled Photoacoustic Microscopy Images Using Deep
    Learning._ , Ieee Trans. Medical Imaging, vol 40 (2021), pp. 562-570
    [10.1109/TMI.2020.3031541] [abs].
  * Wu, H; Tang, Y; Kim, H; Yao, J; Jiang, X, _Fiber based laser ultrasound
    transducer for intravascular thrombolysis with detective photoacoustic
    imaging_ , Ieee International Ultrasonics Symposium, Ius, vol
    2020-September (2020) [10.1109/IUS46767.2020.9251732] [abs].
  * Yao, J, _Ultrasfast Wide-field Photoacoustic Microscopy of Small-animal
    Models_ , 2020 Ieee Photonics Conference, Ipc 2020 Proceedings (2020)
    [10.1109/IPC47351.2020.9252208] [abs].
  * Li, M; Yao, J, _Internal-Illumination Photoacoustic Tomography Enhanced by
    a Graded-scattering Fiber Diffuser_ , 2020 Ieee Photonics Conference, Ipc
    2020 Proceedings (2020) [10.1109/IPC47351.2020.9252241] [abs].
  * Vu, T; Li, M; Humayun, H; Zhou, Y; Yao, J, _A generative adversarial
    network for artifact removal in photoacoustic computed tomography with a
    linear-array transducer._ , Experimental Biology and Medicine, vol 245 no.
    7 (2020), pp. 597-605 [10.1177/1535370220914285] [abs].
  * Li, Y; Li, L; Zhu, L; Maslov, K; Shi, J; Hu, P; Bo, E; Yao, J; Liang, J;
    Wang, L; Wang, LV, _Snapshot Photoacoustic Topography Through an Ergodic
    Relay for High-throughput Imaging of Optical Absorption._ , Nature
    Photonics, vol 14 no. 3 (2020), pp. 164-170 [10.1038/s41566-019-0576-2]
    [abs].
  * Li, M; Lan, B; Sankin, G; Zhou, Y; Liu, W; Xia, J; Wang, D; Trahey, G;
    Zhong, P; Yao, J, _Simultaneous Photoacoustic Imaging and Cavitation
    Mapping in Shockwave Lithotripsy._ , Ieee Transactions on Medical Imaging,
    vol 39 no. 2 (2020), pp. 468-477 [10.1109/tmi.2019.2928740] [abs].
  * Onufer, EJ; Aladegbami, B; Imai, T; Seiler, K; Bajinting, A; Courtney, C;
    Sutton, S; Bustos, A; Yao, J; Yeh, C-H; Sescleifer, A; Wang, LV; Guo, J;
    Warner, BW, _EGFR in enterocytes & endothelium and HIF1α in enterocytes
    are dispensable for massive small bowel resection induced angiogenesis._,
    Plos One, vol 15 no. 9 (2020) [10.1371/journal.pone.0236964] [abs].
  * Tang, Y; Qian, X; Lee, DJ; Zhou, Q; Yao, J, _From Light to Sound:
    Photoacoustic and Ultrasound Imaging in Fundamental Research of
    Alzheimer's Disease._ , Obm Neurobiology, vol 4 no. 2 (2020)
    [10.21926/obm.neurobiol.2002056] [abs].
  * Vu, T; Razansky, D; Yao, J, _Listening to tissues with new light: recent
    technological advances in photoacoustic imaging._ , Journal of Optics
    (United Kingdom), vol 21 no. 10 (2019) [10.1088/2040-8986/ab3b1a] [abs].
  * Chen, M; Knox, HJ; Tang, Y; Liu, W; Nie, L; Chan, J; Yao, J, _Simultaneous
    photoacoustic imaging of intravascular and tissue oxygenation._ , Optics
    Letters, vol 44 no. 15 (2019), pp. 3773-3776 [10.1364/ol.44.003773] [abs].
  * Liang, B; Liu, W; Zhan, Q; Li, M; Zhuang, M; Liu, QH; Yao, J, _Impacts of
    the murine skull on high-frequency transcranial photoacoustic brain
    imaging._ , Journal of Biophotonics, vol 12 no. 7 (2019)
    [10.1002/jbio.201800466] [abs].
  * Humayun, H; Yao, J, _Imaging the aged brain: pertinence and methods._ ,
    Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery, vol 9 no. 5 (2019), pp.
    842-857 [10.21037/qims.2019.05.06] [abs].
  * Zhou, Y; Li, M; Liu, W; Sankin, G; Luo, J; Zhong, P; Yao, J, _Thermal
    Memory Based Photoacoustic Imaging of Temperature._ , Optica, vol 6 no. 2
    (2019), pp. 198-205 [10.1364/optica.6.000198] [abs].
  * Lan, B; Liu, W; Wang, Y-C; Shi, J; Li, Y; Xu, S; Sheng, H; Zhou, Q; Zou,
    J; Hoffmann, U; Yang, W; Yao, J, _High-speed widefield photoacoustic
    microscopy of small-animal hemodynamics._ , Biomedical Optics Express, vol
    9 no. 10 (2018), pp. 4689-4701 [10.1364/BOE.9.004689] [abs].
  * Vienneau, E; Liu, W; Yao, J, _Dual-view acoustic-resolution photoacoustic
    microscopy with enhanced resolution isotropy._ , Optics Letters, vol 43
    no. 18 (2018), pp. 4413-4416 [10.1364/ol.43.004413] [abs].
  * Shi, J; Tang, Y; Yao, J, _Advances in super-resolution photoacoustic
    imaging._ , Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery, vol 8 no. 8
    (2018), pp. 724-732 [10.21037/qims.2018.09.14] [abs].
  * Liu, W; Shcherbakova, DM; Kurupassery, N; Li, Y; Zhou, Q; Verkhusha, VV;
    Yao, J, _Quad-mode functional and molecular photoacoustic microscopy._ ,
    Scientific Reports, vol 8 no. 1 (2018) [10.1038/s41598-018-29249-1] [abs].
  * Li, L; Shemetov, AA; Baloban, M; Hu, P; Zhu, L; Shcherbakova, DM; Zhang,
    R; Shi, J; Yao, J; Wang, LV; Verkhusha, VV, _Small near-infrared
    photochromic protein for photoacoustic multi-contrast imaging and
    detection of protein interactions in vivo._ , Nature Communications, vol 9
    no. 1 (2018) [10.1038/s41467-018-05231-3] [abs].
  * Liu, W; Zhou, Y; Wang, M; Li, L; Vienneau, E; Chen, R; Luo, J; Xu, C;
    Zhou, Q; Wang, LV; Yao, J, _Correcting the limited view in optical-
    resolution photoacoustic microscopy._ , Journal of Biophotonics, vol 11
    no. 2 (2018) [10.1002/jbio.201700196] [abs].
  * Liu, W; Lan, B; Hu, L; Chen, R; Zhou, Q; Yao, J, _Photoacoustic thermal
    flowmetry with a single light source._ , Journal of Biomedical Optics, vol
    22 no. 9 (2017), pp. 1-6 [10.1117/1.jbo.22.9.096001] [abs].
  * Brunker, J; Yao, J; Laufer, J; Bohndiek, SE, _Photoacoustic imaging using
    genetically encoded reporters: a review._ , Journal of Biomedical Optics,
    vol 22 no. 7 (2017) [10.1117/1.jbo.22.7.070901] [abs].
  * Yao, J, _When pressure meets light: detecting the photoacoustic effect at
    the origin._ , Light: Science and Applications, vol 6 no. 6 (2017)
    [10.1038/lsa.2017.62] [abs].
  * Li, L; Zhu, L; Ma, C; Lin, L; Yao, J; Wang, L; Maslov, K; Zhang, R; Chen,
    W; Shi, J; Wang, LV, _Single-impulse Panoramic Photoacoustic Computed
    Tomography of Small-animal Whole-body Dynamics at High Spatiotemporal
    Resolution._ , Nature Biomedical Engineering, vol 1 no. 5 (2017)
    [10.1038/s41551-017-0071] [abs].
  * Wang, LV; Yao, J, _A practical guide to photoacoustic tomography in the
    life sciences._ , Nature Methods, vol 13 no. 8 (2016), pp. 627-638
    [10.1038/nmeth.3925] [abs].
  * Zhou, Y; Yao, J; Wang, LV, _Tutorial on photoacoustic tomography._ ,
    Journal of Biomedical Optics, vol 21 no. 6 (2016)
    [10.1117/1.jbo.21.6.061007] [abs].
  * Lin, L; Yao, J; Li, L; Wang, LV, _In vivo photoacoustic tomography of
    myoglobin oxygen saturation._ , Journal of Biomedical Optics, vol 21 no. 6
    (2016) [10.1117/1.jbo.21.6.061002] [abs].
  * Hai, P; Yao, J; Li, G; Li, C; Wang, LV, _Photoacoustic elastography._ ,
    Optics Letters, vol 41 no. 4 (2016), pp. 725-728 [10.1364/ol.41.000725]
    [abs].
  * Yao, J; Kaberniuk, AA; Li, L; Shcherbakova, DM; Zhang, R; Wang, L; Li, G;
    Verkhusha, VV; Wang, LV, _Multiscale photoacoustic tomography using
    reversibly switchable bacterial phytochrome as a near-infrared
    photochromic probe._ , Nature Methods, vol 13 no. 1 (2016), pp. 67-73
    [10.1038/nmeth.3656] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Wang, L; Yang, J-M; Maslov, KI; Wong, TTW; Li, L; Huang, C-H; Zou,
    J; Wang, LV, _High-speed label-free functional photoacoustic microscopy of
    mouse brain in action._ , Nature Methods, vol 12 no. 5 (2015), pp. 407-410
    [10.1038/nmeth.3336] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Song, L; Wang, LV, _Photoacoustic microscopy: superdepth,
    superresolution, and superb contrast._ , Ieee Pulse, vol 6 no. 3 (2015),
    pp. 34-37 [10.1109/mpul.2015.2409100] [abs].
  * Xia, J; Yao, J; Wang, LV, _Photoacoustic tomography: principles and
    advances._ , Electromagnetic Waves (Cambridge, Mass.), vol 147 (2014), pp.
    1-22 [10.2528/pier14032303] [abs].
  * Wang, L; Yao, J; Maslov, KI; Xing, W; Wang, LV, _Ultrasound-heated
    photoacoustic flowmetry._ , Journal of Biomedical Optics, vol 18 no. 11
    (2013) [10.1117/1.jbo.18.11.117003] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Wang, LV, _Photoacoustic Microscopy._ , Laser & Photonics Reviews,
    vol 7 no. 5 (2013) [10.1002/lpor.201200060] [abs].
  * Zhang, R; Yao, J; Maslov, KI; Wang, LV, _Structured-illumination
    photoacoustic Doppler flowmetry of axial flow in homogeneous scattering
    media._ , Applied Physics Letters, vol 103 no. 9 (2013)
    [10.1063/1.4819735] [abs].
  * Zhou, Y; Yao, J; Wang, LV, _Optical clearing-aided photoacoustic
    microscopy with enhanced resolution and imaging depth._ , Optics Letters,
    vol 38 no. 14 (2013), pp. 2592-2595 [10.1364/ol.38.002592] [abs].
  * Rowland, KJ; Yao, J; Wang, L; Erwin, CR; Maslov, KI; Wang, LV; Warner, BW,
    _Up-regulation of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha and hemodynamic
    responses following massive small bowel resection._ , Journal of Pediatric
    Surgery, vol 48 no. 6 (2013), pp. 1330-1339
    [10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2013.03.031] [abs].
  * Cai, X; Zhang, Y; Li, L; Choi, S-W; MacEwan, MR; Yao, J; Kim, C; Xia, Y;
    Wang, LV, _Investigation of neovascularization in three-dimensional porous
    scaffolds in vivo by a combination of multiscale photoacoustic microscopy
    and optical coherence tomography._ , Tissue Engineering. Part C, Methods,
    vol 19 no. 3 (2013), pp. 196-204 [10.1089/ten.tec.2012.0326] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Xia, J; Maslov, KI; Nasiriavanaki, M; Tsytsarev, V; Demchenko, AV;
    Wang, LV, _Noninvasive photoacoustic computed tomography of mouse brain
    metabolism in vivo._ , Neuroimage, vol 64 (2013), pp. 257-266
    [10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.08.054] [abs].
  * Huang, C-H; Yao, J; Wang, LV; Zou, J, _A water-immersible 2-axis scanning
    mirror microsystem for ultrasound andha photoacoustic microscopic imaging
    applications._ , Microsystem Technologies, vol 19 no. 4 (2013), pp.
    577-582 [10.1007/s00542-012-1660-4] [abs].
  * Zhang, C; Maslov, K; Yao, J; Wang, LV, _In vivo photoacoustic microscopy
    with 7.6-µm axial resolution using a commercial 125-MHz ultrasonic
    transducer._ , Journal of Biomedical Optics, vol 17 no. 11 (2012)
    [10.1117/1.jbo.17.11.116016] [abs].
  * Yang, J-M; Chen, R; Favazza, C; Yao, J; Li, C; Hu, Z; Zhou, Q; Shung, KK;
    Wang, LV, _A 2.5-mm diameter probe for photoacoustic and ultrasonic
    endoscopy._ , Optics Express, vol 20 no. 21 (2012), pp. 23944-23953
    [10.1364/oe.20.023944] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Huang, C-H; Wang, L; Yang, J-M; Gao, L; Maslov, KI; Zou, J; Wang,
    LV, _Wide-field fast-scanning photoacoustic microscopy based on a water-
    immersible MEMS scanning mirror._ , Journal of Biomedical Optics, vol 17
    no. 8 (2012), pp. 080505-080501 [10.1117/1.jbo.17.8.080505] [abs].
  * Yang, J-M; Favazza, C; Chen, R; Yao, J; Cai, X; Maslov, K; Zhou, Q; Shung,
    KK; Wang, LV, _Simultaneous functional photoacoustic and ultrasonic
    endoscopy of internal organs in vivo._ , Nature Medicine, vol 18 no. 8
    (2012), pp. 1297-1302 [10.1038/nm.2823] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Maslov, KI; Wang, LV, _In vivo photoacoustic tomography of total
    blood flow and potential imaging of cancer angiogenesis and
    hypermetabolism._ , Technology in Cancer Research & Treatment, vol 11 no.
    4 (2012), pp. 301-307 [10.7785/tcrt.2012.500278] [abs].
  * Rowland, KJ; Yao, J; Wang, L; Erwin, CR; Maslov, KI; Wang, LV; Warner, BW,
    _Immediate alterations in intestinal oxygen saturation and blood flow
    after massive small bowel resection as measured by photoacoustic
    microscopy._ , Journal of Pediatric Surgery, vol 47 no. 6 (2012), pp.
    1143-1149 [10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2012.03.020] [abs].
  * Krumholz, A; Wang, L; Yao, J; Wang, LV, _Functional photoacoustic
    microscopy of diabetic vasculature._ , Journal of Biomedical Optics, vol
    17 no. 6 (2012) [10.1117/1.jbo.17.6.060502] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Maslov, KI; Puckett, ER; Rowland, KJ; Warner, BW; Wang, LV,
    _Double-illumination photoacoustic microscopy._ , Optics Letters, vol 37
    no. 4 (2012), pp. 659-661 [10.1364/ol.37.000659] [abs].
  * Filonov, GS; Krumholz, A; Xia, J; Yao, J; Wang, LV; Verkhusha, VV, _Deep-
    tissue photoacoustic tomography of a genetically encoded near-infrared
    fluorescent probe._ , Angewandte Chemie International Edition, vol 51 no.
    6 (2012), pp. 1448-1451 [10.1002/anie.201107026] [abs].
  * Tsytsarev, V; Maslov, KI; Yao, J; Parameswar, AR; Demchenko, AV; Wang, LV,
    _In vivo imaging of epileptic activity using 2-NBDG, a fluorescent
    deoxyglucose analog._ , Journal of Neuroscience Methods, vol 203 no. 1
    (2012), pp. 136-140 [10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.09.005] [abs].
  * Chatni, MR; Yao, J; Danielli, A; Favazza, CP; Maslov, KI; Wang, LV,
    _Functional photoacoustic microscopy of pH._ , Journal of Biomedical
    Optics, vol 16 no. 10 (2011) [10.1117/1.3644495] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Wang, LV, _Photoacoustic tomography: fundamentals, advances and
    prospects._ , Contrast Media & Molecular Imaging, vol 6 no. 5 (2011), pp.
    332-345 [10.1002/cmmi.443] [abs].
  * Krumholz, A; Vanvickle-Chavez, SJ; Yao, J; Fleming, TP; Gillanders, WE;
    Wang, LV, _Photoacoustic microscopy of tyrosinase reporter gene in vivo._
    , Journal of Biomedical Optics, vol 16 no. 8 (2011) [10.1117/1.3606568]
    [abs].
  * Oladipupo, S; Hu, S; Kovalski, J; Yao, J; Santeford, A; Sohn, RE; Shohet,
    R; Maslov, K; Wang, LV; Arbeit, JM, _VEGF is essential for hypoxia-
    inducible factor-mediated neovascularization but dispensable for
    endothelial sprouting._ , Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
    of the United States of America, vol 108 no. 32 (2011), pp. 13264-13269
    [10.1073/pnas.1101321108] [abs].
  * Tsytsarev, V; Hu, S; Yao, J; Maslov, K; Barbour, DL; Wang, LV,
    _Photoacoustic microscopy of microvascular responses to cortical
    electrical stimulation._ , Journal of Biomedical Optics, vol 16 no. 7
    (2011) [10.1117/1.3594785] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Maslov, KI; Zhang, Y; Xia, Y; Wang, LV, _Label-free oxygen-
    metabolic photoacoustic microscopy in vivo._ , Journal of Biomedical
    Optics, vol 16 no. 7 (2011) [10.1117/1.3594786] [abs].
  * Oladipupo, SS; Hu, S; Santeford, AC; Yao, J; Kovalski, JR; Shohet, RV;
    Maslov, K; Wang, LV; Arbeit, JM, _Conditional HIF-1 induction produces
    multistage neovascularization with stage-specific sensitivity to VEGFR
    inhibitors and myeloid cell independence._ , Blood, vol 117 no. 15 (2011),
    pp. 4142-4153 [10.1182/blood-2010-09-307538] [abs].
  * Wang, L; Maslov, K; Yao, J; Rao, B; Wang, LV, _Fast voice-coil scanning
    optical-resolution photoacoustic microscopy._ , Optics Letters, vol 36 no.
    2 (2011), pp. 139-141 [10.1364/ol.36.000139] [abs].
  * Kim, C; Song, H-M; Cai, X; Yao, J; Wei, A; Wang, LV, _In vivo
    photoacoustic mapping of lymphatic systems with plasmon-resonant
    nanostars._ , Journal of Materials Chemistry, vol 21 no. 9 (2011), pp.
    2841-2844 [10.1039/c0jm04194g] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Maslov, KI; Shi, Y; Taber, LA; Wang, LV, _In vivo photoacoustic
    imaging of transverse blood flow by using Doppler broadening of
    bandwidth._ , Optics Letters, vol 35 no. 9 (2010), pp. 1419-1421
    [10.1364/ol.35.001419] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Wang, LV, _Transverse flow imaging based on photoacoustic Doppler
    bandwidth broadening._ , Journal of Biomedical Optics, vol 15 no. 2 (2010)
    [10.1117/1.3339953] [abs].
  * Yao, J; Maslov, K; Hu, S; Wang, LV, _Evans blue dye-enhanced capillary-
    resolution photoacoustic microscopy in vivo._ , Journal of Biomedical
    Optics, vol 14 no. 5 (2009) [10.1117/1.3251044] [abs].
  * Song, XL; Hu, G; Yao, JJ; Bai, J, _Three-dimensional reconstruction for
    fluorescence tomography using cylinder phantoms_ , Journal of Software,
    vol 20 no. 5 (2009), pp. 1089-1095 [10.3724/SP.J.1001.2009.03560] [abs].
  * Yao, JJ; Hu, G; Bai, J, _Modeling and validation of light propagation in
    free-space for non-contact near-infrared fluorescent tomography_ , Hongwai
    Yu Haomibo Xuebao/Journal of Infrared and Millimeter Waves, vol 27 no. 5
    (2008) [abs].
  * Yao, JJ; Hu, G; Yue, SH; Bai, J, _A 3D-surface torso reconstruction method
    used in fluorescence molecular tomography of small animals_ , Chinese
    Journal of Biomedical Engineering, vol 27 no. 3 (2008), pp. 360-365 [abs].
  * Hu, G; Yao, J; Bai, J, _Full-angle optical imaging of near-infrared
    fluorescent probes implanted in small animals_ , Progress in Natural
    Science, vol 18 no. 6 (2008), pp. 707-711 [10.1016/j.pnsc.2007.11.021]
    [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

