

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Kathryn Radabaugh Nightingale

Theo Pilkington Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

The goals of our laboratory are to investigate and improve ultrasonic imaging
methods for clinically-relevant problems. We do this through theoretical,
experimental, and simulation methods. The main focus of our recent work is the
development of novel, acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI)-based elasticity
imaging methods to generate images of the mechanical properties of tissue,
involving interdisciplinary research in ultrasonics and tissue biomechanics.
We have access to the engineering interfaces of several commercial ultrasound
systems which allows us to design, rapidly prototype, and experimentally
demonstrate custom sequences to explore novel beamforming and imaging
concepts. We employ FEM modeling methods to simulate the behavior of tissues
during mechanical excitation, and we have integrated these tools with
ultrasonic imaging modeling tools to simulate the ARFI imaging process. We
maintain strong collaborations with the Duke University Medical Center where
we work to translate our technologies to clinical practice. The ARFI imaging
technologies we have developed have served as the basis for commercial imaging
technologies that are now being used in clinics throughout the world. We are
also studying the risks and benefits of increasing acoustic output energy for
specific clinical imaging scenarios, with the goal of improving ultrasonic
image quality in the difficult-to-image patient.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Theo Pilkington Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute
  * Bass Fellow

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 277 Hudson Hall Annex, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5175
  * **Email Address:** kathy.nightingale@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar
    * http://kathynightingalelab.pratt.duke.edu/

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1997
  * B.S. Duke University, 1989

## Research Interests

Ultrasonic and elasticity imaging, specifically nonlinear propagation,
acoustic streaming and radiation force; the intentional generation of these
phenomena for the purpose of tissue characterization; finite element modeling
of normal and diseased tissue when exposed to ultrasound, and performing both
phantom and clinical experiments investigating these phenomena. Other areas of
interest include prostate imaging, abdominal imaging, image-guided therapies,
and the bioeffects of ultrasound.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Joseph H. Holmes Basic Science Pioneer Award. American Institute of
    Ultrasound in Medicine. 2022
  * Fellow (NAI). National Academy of Inventors. 2019
  * Lois and John L. Imhoff Distinguished Teaching Award. Pratt School of
    Engineering. 2018
  * Fellow. American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering. 2016
  * Capers and Marion McDonald Teaching and Research Award. Pratt School of
    Engineering. 2015
  * Klein Family Distinguished Teaching Award. Pratt School of Engineering.
    2007

## Courses Taught

  * BME 354L: Introduction to Medical Instrumentation
  * BME 493-1: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 542: Principles of Ultrasound Imaging (GE, IM)
  * BME 845: Elasticity Imaging

## In the News

  * Nightingale, Wilson Elected Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors
    (Dec 6, 2019 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Duke Adds 21 Faculty to Distinguished Faculty Rank (May 7, 2019)
  * Bringing Scholarship to the Classroom (Nov 19, 2013 | Duke Today)

## Representative Publications

  * Paley, CT; Knight, AE; Jin, FQ; Moavenzadeh, SR; Pietrosimone, LS; Hobson-
    Webb, LD; Rouze, NC; Palmeri, ML; Nightingale, KR, _Repeatability of
    Rotational 3-D Shear Wave Elasticity Imaging Measurements in Skeletal
    Muscle._ , Ultrasound Med Biol, vol 49 no. 3 (2023), pp. 750-760
    [10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2022.10.012] [abs].
  * Zhang, B; Bottenus, N; Jin, FQ; Nightingale, KR, _Quantifying the Impact
    of Imaging Through Body Walls on Shear Wave Elasticity Measurements._ ,
    Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology, vol 49 no. 3 (2023), pp. 734-749
    [10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2022.10.005] [abs].
  * Knight, AE; Jin, FQ; Paley, CT; Rouze, NC; Moavenzadeh, SR; Pietrosimone,
    LS; Palmeri, ML; Nightingale, KR, _Parametric Analysis of SV Mode Shear
    Waves in Transversely Isotropic Materials Using Ultrasonic Rotational 3-D
    SWEI._ , Ieee Trans Ultrason Ferroelectr Freq Control, vol 69 no. 11
    (2022), pp. 3145-3154 [10.1109/TUFFC.2022.3203935] [abs].
  * McCune, EP; Le, DQ; Lindholm, P; Nightingale, KR; Dayton, PA;
    Papadopoulou, V, _Perspective on ultrasound bioeffects and possible
    implications for continuous post-dive monitoring safety._ , Diving and
    Hyperbaric Medicine, vol 52 no. 2 (2022), pp. 136-148
    [10.28920/dhm52.2.136-148] [abs].
  * Rouze, NC; Caenen, A; Nightingale, KR, _Phase and group velocities for
    shear wave propagation in an incompressible, hyperelastic material with
    uniaxial stretch._ , Physics in Medicine and Biology, vol 67 no. 9 (2022)
    [10.1088/1361-6560/ac5bfc] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

