

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Laurens E. Howle

Professor with Tenure in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Professor Howle's research interests span the disciplines of thermal science,
fluid dynamics, and nonlinear dynamics. His present research projects -
visualization of convective fluid patterns, stabilization of the no-motion
state in free convection and bifurcation in imperfect or distributed parameter
systems - are split evenly between experimental and computational methods.

A key problem facing researchers studying convection in fluid-saturated porous
media is the lack of a general, non-invasive method for pattern visualization
and wave number measurement. Professor Howle designed innovative porous media
which allow optical techniques to be used for the first time as a pattern
visualization tool in the study of porous media convection.

Computational spectral methods are efficient methods of simulation of small
aspect ratio convection systems. For large problems, these methods can become
too expensive to be practical. Professor Howle developed a reduced Galerkin
method which decreases the execution time by orders of magnitude for large
problems. This extends the range of problems for which certain spectral
methods may be used. He is currently studying porous free convection in
systems with distributed properties and binary convection using the reduced
Galerkin method.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor with Tenure in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
    Engineering and Materials Science
  * Associate Professor in the Division of Marine Science and Conservation
  * Associate Professor of Radiology
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 239 Hudson Eng Bldg, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708-0300
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5331
  * **Email Address:** laurens.howle@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1993

## Research Interests

Hydroelastic modeling of deformable structures, transport in thermal and
chemical systems, experimental and computational fluid dynamics, nonlinear and
complex systems, heat and mass transport in biological systems, stability of
fluid motions, machine learning, data mining, econophysics, reduced order
modeling, modeling of decompression sickness, pharmacokinetics and
pharmacodynamics, mechanical design, manufacturing engineering, wind power.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellows. American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 2012

## Courses Taught

  * ENRGYEGR 490: Special Topics in Energy Engineering
  * ME 321L: Mechanical Engineering Analysis for Design
  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 639: Computational Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer

## In the News

  * Predicting How Bad the Bends Will Be (Mar 20, 2017 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Wu, CY; Nowacek, DP; Nousek-McGregor, AE; McGregor, R; Howle, LE,
    _Computational fluid dynamics of flow regime and hydrodynamic forces
    generated by a gliding North Atlantic right whale (Eubalaena glacialis)_ ,
    Marine Mammal Science, vol 37 no. 3 (2021), pp. 826-842
    [10.1111/mms.12798] [abs].
  * Schwartz, FR; Lewis, DS; King, AE; Murphy, FG; Howle, LE; Kim, CY; Nelson,
    RC, _Hemodialysis catheter integrity during mechanical power injection of
    iodinated contrast medium for computed tomography angiography._ , Abdom
    Radiol (Ny), vol 46 no. 6 (2021), pp. 2961-2967
    [10.1007/s00261-020-02905-9] [abs].
  * King, AE; Andriano, NR; Howle, LE, _Trinomial decompression sickness model
    using full, marginal, and non-event outcomes._ , Computers in Biology and
    Medicine, vol 118 (2020) [10.1016/j.compbiomed.2020.103640] [abs].
  * King, AE; Howle, LE, _Tetranomial decompression sickness model using
    serious, mild, marginal, and non-event outcomes_ , Informatics in Medicine
    Unlocked, vol 20 (2020) [10.1016/j.imu.2020.100371] [abs].
  * Di Muro, G; Murphy, FG; Vann, RD; Howle, LE, _Are interconnected
    compartmental models more effective at predicting decompression sickness
    risk?_ , Informatics in Medicine Unlocked, vol 20 (2020)
    [10.1016/j.imu.2020.100334] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

