

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Lawrence N. Virgin

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Professor Virgin's research is centered on studying the behavior of nonlinear
dynamical systems. This work may be broadly divided into two components.
First, investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems based on a
mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion. Both
analytical and numerical techniques are used with special attention focused on
the loss of stability of dynamical systems.

The second area of interest is to apply recent results from nonlinear
dynamical systems theory to problems of practical engineering importance.
These include the nonlinear rolling motion of ships leading to capsize;
buckling of axially-loaded structural components; aeroelastic flutter of
aircraft panels at high supersonic speeds; vibration isolation based on
nonlinear springs; energy harvesting; damage detection and structural health
monitoring; and the dynamics of very flexible structures including solar sails
and marine risers. Professor Virgin conducts mechanical experiments to
complement these studies.

The flavor of much of this work is contained in the books:

Introduction to Experimental Nonlinear Dynamics, L.N. Virgin, Cambridge
University Press, 2000.

Vibration of Axially Loaded Structures, L.N. Virgin, Cambridge University
Press, 2007.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3393 Fciemas, Duke Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5342
  * **Email Address:** l.virgin@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * http://nonlineardynamics.pratt.duke.edu/

## Education

  * Ph.D. University of London (United Kingdom), 1986
  * M.S. Cardiff University (United Kingdom), 1982
  * B.S. University of Manchester (United Kingdom), 1981

## Research Interests

Study of the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems, including the
investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems based on a
mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion and the
application of recent results from nonlinear dynamical systems theory to
problems of practical engineering importance, especially in aerospace
engineering.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Frocht Award. Society for Experimental Mechanics. 2016
  * International Gas Turbine Institute's (IGTI) J. P. Davis Award. American
    Society of Mechanical Engineers. 2012

## Courses Taught

  * ME 391: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 392: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 394: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
  * ME 473: Aerospace Structures
  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 491: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 492: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 493: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
  * ME 494: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 592: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 742: Nonlinear Mechanical Vibration

## In the News

  * Crushing Cylinders for Fun and Science (Jan 23, 2023 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * The Sky's the Limit for Duke Engineers Designing the Safest, Most Cost-
    Efficient Aircraft and Turbomachinery (May 24, 2021 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Virgin, LN; Harvey, PS, _A lateral–torsional buckling demonstration model
    using 3D printing_ , Engineering Structures, vol 280 (2023)
    [10.1016/j.engstruct.2023.115682] [abs].
  * Cooley, SA; Yang, H; Virgin, LN, _3D-printing and cylinder buckling:
    challenges and opportunities._ , Philosophical Transactions. Series A,
    Mathematical, Physical, and Engineering Sciences, vol 381 no. 2244 (2023)
    [10.1098/rsta.2022.0035] [abs].
  * Virgin, LN, _On the elastic snapping of structural elements_ ,
    International Journal of Non Linear Mechanics, vol 149 (2023)
    [10.1016/j.ijnonlinmec.2022.104329] [abs].
  * Cervi, C; Santillan, ST; Virgin, LN, _Interrogating the Configuration
    Space of Postbuckled Beams_ , Journal of Engineering Mechanics, vol 149
    no. 3 (2023) [10.1061/JENMDT.EMENG-6839] [abs].
  * Virgin, LN, _A shear center demonstration model using 3D-printing_ ,
    International Journal of Mechanical Engineering Education, vol 50 no. 3
    (2022), pp. 739-748 [10.1177/03064190211057429] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

