

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# P. Lee Ferguson

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Dr. Ferguson is an Environmental Analytical Chemist who joined Duke in 2009
after six years as an assistant professor in the Department of Chemistry &
Biochemistry at the University of South Carolina.

Research in the Ferguson laboratory is focused on development of novel methods
for trace analysis of organic and nanoparticulate contaminants in the aquatic
environment. Specifically, the laboratory uses high performance mass
spectrometry techniques (e.g. UHPLC-Orbitrap MS/MS) to detect, identify, and
quantify emerging contaminants (including endocrine disruptors,
pharmaceuticals, and surfactants) in wastewater and drinking water. Another
significant research thrust involves the development of sensitive trace
analytical techniques for quantifying and characterizing single-walled carbon
nanotubes in water, sediment, and aquatic organism tissues. For this work,
near infrared fluorescence spectroscopy (NIRF) is used as a primary tool for
resolving these novel nanoparticulate contaminants in highly complex
environmental mixtures.

The analytical methods developed in the Ferguson laboratory laboratory (for
both nanoparticles and organic contaminants) are applied to both process-
oriented environmental chemistry experiments in the field and laboratory as
well as to toxicity bioassays (including whole-organism assays and molecular
endpoints). The overarching goal is to gain an increased understanding of how
emerging contaminants are transported, transformed and induce deleterious
effects within aquatic ecosystems.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences and Policy

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 534 Research Dr., Wilkinson Building, Room 205,
    Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5460
  * **Email Address:** lee.ferguson@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Environmental Exposomics Lab
    * Falk Foundation Environmental Exposomics Laboratory
    * Ferguson Group Webpage

## Education

  * Ph.D. State University of New York, Stony Brook, 2002

## Research Interests

Environmental analytical chemistry and applications of high resolution mass
spectrometry to trace organic contaminant analysis, environmental fate and
effects of carbon nanomaterials in the aquatic environment, proteomics in
environmental toxicology, and mechanisms of environmental endocrine disruption
in aquatic organisms

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Kavli Frontiers of Science Fellow. National Academy of Sciences. 2011
  * Outstanding Performance Award. Fundamental Science Directorate, Pacific
    Northwest National Laboratory. 2003
  * President's Award to Distinguished Doctoral Students. Stony Brook
    University. 2002
  * Honorable Mention. National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowship
    Competition. 1998
  * U.S. EPA STAR Graduate Fellowship. Environmental Protection Agency. 1998
  * Belle W. Baruch Outstanding Undergrduate in Marine Science Award.
    University of South Carolina. 1997
  * Howard Hughes Undergraduate Research Fellow. University of South Carolina.
    1996
  * Senior Scholars Scholarship. University of South Carolina. 1996
  * Undergraduate Research Fellow, South Carolina EPSCoR. National Science
    Foundation. 1995

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 565: Environmental Analytical Chemistry
  * CEE 667: Chemical Transformation of Environmental Contaminants
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * ENVIRON 393: Research Independent Study
  * ENVIRON 566: Environmental Analytical Chemistry
  * ENVIRON 573A: Coastal and Marine Pollution
  * ENVIRON 593: Independent Studies and Projects
  * ENVIRON 667: Chemical Transformation of Environmental Contaminants
  * ENVIRON 790: Special Topics
  * ENVIRON 898: Program Area Seminar
  * ENVIRON 899: Master's Project
  * ENVIRON 997: Duke Environmental Leadership: Independent Studies and
    Projects
  * ENVIRON 999: Duke Environmental Leadership: Master's Project
  * MARSCI 573A: Coastal and Marine Pollution

## In the News

  * Engineering the End of ‘Forever Chemicals’ (Nov 30, 2022 | Duke
    Engineering Magazine)
  * Dipping Into Sri Lanka's Rural Wells (Feb 22, 2022 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * What's in North Carolina Drinking Water? (Feb 7, 2020)
  * Contaminated Water in North Carolina Backyards (Feb 5, 2020 | Duke
    Research Blog)
  * Hurricanes: How to Prepare and Why They’re Getting More Dangerous (Sep 4,
    2019)
  * Duke Expert Helps Spearhead State's New Water-Testing Program (Aug 8,
    2018)
  * Nanoparticles Accumulate Quickly in Wetland Sediment (Oct 1, 2014 | Pratt
    School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Herkert, NJ; Kassotis, CD; Zhang, S; Han, Y; Pulikkal, VF; Sun, M;
    Ferguson, PL; Stapleton, HM, _Characterization of Per- and Polyfluorinated
    Alkyl Substances Present in Commercial Anti-fog Products and Their In
    Vitro Adipogenic Activity._ , Environmental Science & Technology, vol 56
    no. 2 (2022), pp. 1162-1173 [10.1021/acs.est.1c06990] [abs].
  * Overdahl, KE; Gooden, D; Bobay, B; Getzinger, GJ; Stapleton, HM; Ferguson,
    PL, _Characterizing azobenzene disperse dyes in commercial mixtures and
    children's polyester clothing._ , Environmental Pollution (Barking, Essex
    : 1987), vol 287 (2021) [10.1016/j.envpol.2021.117299] [abs].
  * Walker, I; Montaño, MD; Lankone, RS; Fairbrother, DH; Ferguson, PL,
    _Influence of CNT loading and environmental stressors on leaching of
    polymer-associated chemicals from epoxy and polycarbonate nanocomposites_
    , Environmental Chemistry, vol 18 no. 3 (2021), pp. 131-141
    [10.1071/EN21043] [abs].
  * Ulrich, JC; Ferguson, PL, _Development of a sensitive direct injection LC-
    MS/MS method for the detection of glyphosate and aminomethylphosphonic
    acid (AMPA) in hard waters._ , Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry, vol
    413 no. 14 (2021), pp. 3763-3774 [10.1007/s00216-021-03324-5] [abs].
  * Getzinger, G; Ferguson, L, _High-Throughput Trace-Level Suspect Screening
    for Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances in Environmental Waters by Peak-
    Focusing Online Solid Phase Extraction and High-Resolution Mass
    Spectrometry_ , Acs Es&T Water (2021) [abs].
  * Overdahl, KE; Sutton, R; Sun, J; DeStefano, NJ; Getzinger, GJ; Ferguson,
    PL, _Assessment of emerging polar organic pollutants linked to contaminant
    pathways within an urban estuary using non-targeted analysis._ ,
    Environmental Science. Processes & Impacts, vol 23 no. 3 (2021), pp.
    429-445 [10.1039/d0em00463d] [abs].
  * Getzinger, GJ; Higgins, CP; Ferguson, PL, _Structure Database and In
    Silico Spectral Library for Comprehensive Suspect Screening of Per- and
    Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFASs) in Environmental Media by High-
    resolution Mass Spectrometry._ , Analytical Chemistry, vol 93 no. 5
    (2021), pp. 2820-2827 [10.1021/acs.analchem.0c04109] [abs].
  * Montaño, MD; Liu, K; Sabo-Attwood, T; Ferguson, PL, _Analysis of Single-
    Walled Carbon Nanotubes in Estuarine Sediments by Density Gradient
    Ultracentrifugation Coupled to Near-Infrared Fluorescence Spectroscopy
    Reveals Disassociation of Residual Metal Catalyst Nanoparticles._ ,
    Environmental Science & Technology, vol 55 no. 2 (2021), pp. 1015-1023
    [10.1021/acs.est.0c06058] [abs].
  * Getzinger, GJ; Ferguson, PL, _Illuminating the exposome with high-
    resolution accurate-mass mass spectrometry and nontargeted analysis_ ,
    Current Opinion in Environmental Science and Health, vol 15 (2020), pp.
    49-56 [10.1016/j.coesh.2020.05.005] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

