

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Leila Bridgeman

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Leila Bridgeman joined Duke as an assistant professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science on January 1, 2018.

She received B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees in Applied Mathematics in 2008 and 2010
from McGill University, Montreal. In 2016, she completed a Ph.D. in Mechanical
engineering, also at McGill University.

Her doctoral research involved a return to the foundational work of George
Zames, exploring how the theory of conic sectors can be used to design
controllers that guarantee closed-loop input-output stability when more
conventional methods fail to apply. Her graduate studies involved research
semesters at University of Michigan, University of Bern, and University of
Victoria, along with an internship at Mitsubishi Electric Research
Laboratories (MERL) in Boston.

Through her research, Leila strives to bridge the gap between theoretical
results in robust and optimal control and their use in practice. She explores
how the tools of numerical analysis and input-output stability theory can be
applied to the most challenging of controls problems, including the control of
delayed, open-loop unstable, and nonminimum-phase systems. Her focus has been
on the development of readily-applicable controller synthesis and stability
analysis methods based on the evaluation of linear matrix inequalities (LMIs).
Resulting publications have considered applications of this work to robotic,
process control, and time-delay systems.

She is also interested in model predictive control (MPC) especially when
applied to switched systems. Bridgeman continues to collaborate with
colleagues at MERL, enabling the use of MPC in novel applications including
networked systems, vehicle control, heating, and ventilation.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** North Building, Office 129, 304RESEARCH Dr-Box
    103957, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-1260
  * **Email Address:** leila.bridgeman@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Bridgeman Lab - bridgeman.pratt.duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. McGill University (Canada), 2016

## Research Interests

Robust and optimal control, linear matrix inequalities (LMIs), model
predictive control (MPC), delayed systems, input-output stability, passivity.

## Courses Taught

  * ECE 291: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 382L: Control of Dynamic Systems
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * ME 344L: Control of Dynamic Systems
  * ME 392: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 491: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 591: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 592: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 758S: Curricular Practical Training

## In the News

  * Robotics for a New Generation (Apr 19, 2017 | Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Hall, RA; Bridgeman, LJ, _Computationally Tractable Stability Criteria for
    Exogenously Switched Model Predictive Control_ , Ieee Control Systems
    Letters, vol 5 no. 5 (2021), pp. 1777-1782 [10.1109/LCSYS.2020.3043866]
    [abs].
  * Lavaei, R; Hall, R; Danielson, C; Bridgeman, L, _Constraint Enforcement
    via Tube-Based MPC Exploiting Switching Restrictions_ , Ieee Control
    Systems Letters, vol 5 no. 5 (2021), pp. 1789-1794
    [10.1109/LCSYS.2020.3045391] [abs].
  * Locicero, EJ; Bridgeman, L, _Sparsity Promoting H-Conic Control_ , Ieee
    Control Systems Letters, vol 5 no. 4 (2021), pp. 1453-1458
    [10.1109/LCSYS.2020.3039712] [abs].
  * Gong, Z; Bridgeman, LJ, _Conic Sector Based Stability Criteria for Time-
    Delay Systems_ , Proceedings of the Ieee Conference on Decision and
    Control, vol 2021-December (2021), pp. 4762-4767
    [10.1109/CDC45484.2021.9683127] [abs].
  * Bridgeman, LJ; Forbes, JR, _Iterative H2-conic controller synthesis_ ,
    International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol 29 no. 11
    (2019), pp. 3701-3714 [10.1002/rnc.4581] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

