

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Maria Gorlatova

Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Dr. Maria Gorlatova's research is focused on reaching the next level of
adaptive intelligent behavior in Internet of Things systems and applications.
This research involves the development of architectures, algorithms, and
protocols for emerging pervasive systems. It crosses traditional discipline
boundaries and requires thinking across multiple layers of system and protocol
stacks.

Dr. Gorlatova earned her Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Columbia
University, and her M.Sc. and B.Sc. (Summa Cum Laude) degrees in Electrical
Engineering from University of Ottawa, Canada. She has several years of
industry experience, where she had been affiliated with Telcordia
Technologies, IBM, and D. E. Shaw Research. She came to Duke from Princeton
University, where she held the positions of an Associate Research Scholar in
the Electrical Engineering Department and an Associate Director of the
Princeton EDGE Lab.

Dr. Gorlatova is a recipient of the Google Anita Borg USA Fellowship, Canadian
Graduate Scholar CGS NSERC Fellowships, the Columbia University Presidential
Fellowship, and the Columbia University Jury Award for Outstanding Achievement
in Communications. She is a co-recipient of the ACM SenSys Best Student
Demonstration Award, the IEEE Communications Society Young Author Best Paper
Award, and the IEEE Communications Society Award for Advances in
Communications.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** maria.gorlatova@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * LinkedIn profile 
    * Personal webpage 

## Education

  * Ph.D. Columbia University, 2013
  * M.S. University of Ottawa (Canada), 2007
  * B.S. University of Ottawa (Canada), 2004

## Research Interests

Architectures, algorithms, and protocols for emerging mobile pervasive systems
and the Internet of Things. Our work crosses traditional discipline boundaries
and requires thinking across multiple layers of system and protocol stacks. We
are focusing on breaking the barriers for technologies that enable
fundamentally new deployments and experiences, such as energy harvesting,
artificial intelligence adapted to the Internet of Things constraints, and
augmented reality.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Best Research Artifact Award. IEEE IPSN. 2020
  * N2 Women Rising Star. Networking Networking Women (N2Women). 2019
  * Young Author Best Paper Award. IEEE Communications Society. 2016
  * Jury Award for Outstanding Achievement in Communications. Columbia
    University Electrical Engineering Department. 2013
  * Anita Borg USA Fellowship. Google. 2012
  * Award for Advances in Communications. IEEE Communications Society. 2011
  * Best Student Demonstration Award. ACM SenSys. 2011
  * Presidential Fellowship. Columbia University. 2008
  * Alexander Graham Bell Canada Graduate CGS-D Scholarship. Natural Sciences
    and Engineering Research Council Canada. 2008

## Courses Taught

  * COMPSCI 356: Computer Network Architecture
  * COMPSCI 393: Research Independent Study
  * COMPSCI 394: Research Independent Study
  * COMPSCI 564: Edge Computing
  * COMPSCI 590: Advanced Topics in Computer Science
  * ECE 292: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 356: Computer Network Architecture
  * ECE 391: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 493: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 494: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 654: Edge Computing
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * NEUROSCI 493: Research Independent Study 1
  * NEUROSCI 494: Research Independent Study 2

## In the News

  * Simulated Human Eye Movement Aims to Train Metaverse Platforms (Mar 16,
    2022 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Augmented Reality, Fog, and Vision: Duke Professor Outlines Importance of
    Smart Architectures (Oct 2, 2018 | Network World)
  * Maria Gorlatova: Creating an Intelligent Internet of Things (Sep 11, 2018
    | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * If Donald Trump Were Actually a Battery (May 18, 2017 | New Yorker)
  * The OpenFog Reference Architecture: A Baseline for Interoperability in the
    IIoT Cloud-to-things Continuum (Mar 6, 2017 | Embedded Computing Design)
  * The Internet of You (May 20, 2014 | MIT Technology Review)

## Representative Publications

  * Sun, J; Li, A; Duan, L; Alam, S; Deng, X; Guo, X; Wang, H; Gorlatova, M;
    Zhang, M; Li, H; Chen, Y, _FedSEA: A Semi-Asynchronous Federated Learning
    Framework for Extremely Heterogeneous Devices_ , Sensys 2022 Proceedings
    of the 20th Acm Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems (2022),
    pp. 106-119 [10.1145/3560905.3568538] [abs].
  * Eom, S; Hadziahmetovic, M; Pajic, M; Gorlatova, M, _Demo Abstract: Through
    an AR Lens: Augmented Reality Magnification through Feature Detection and
    Matching_ , Sensys 2022 Proceedings of the 20th Acm Conference on Embedded
    Networked Sensor Systems (2022), pp. 784-785 [10.1145/3560905.3568067]
    [abs].
  * Han, Y; Chen, Y; Wang, R; Wu, J; Gorlatova, M, _Intelli-AR Preloading: A
    Learning Approach to Proactive Hologram Transmissions in Mobile AR_ , Ieee
    Internet of Things Journal, vol 9 no. 18 (2022), pp. 17714-17727
    [10.1109/JIOT.2022.3159554] [abs].
  * Jiang, Y; Wang, W; Scargill, T; Rothman, M; Dunn, J; Gorlatova, M,
    _Digital biomarkers reflect stress reduction after Augmented Reality
    guided meditation: A feasibility study_ , Digibiom 2022 Proceedings of the
    2022 Emerging Devices for Digital Biomarkers (2022), pp. 29-34
    [10.1145/3539494.3542754] [abs].
  * Manjarres, J; Lan, G; Gorlatova, M; Hassan, M; Pardo, M, _Deep Learning
    for Detecting Human Activities from Piezoelectric-Based Kinetic Energy
    Signals_ , Ieee Internet of Things Journal, vol 9 no. 10 (2022), pp.
    7545-7558 [10.1109/JIOT.2021.3093245] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

