

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Mark Edward Borsuk

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Mark Borsuk’s research concerns the development and application of
mathematical models for integrating scientific information on natural,
technical, and social systems. He is a widely-cited expert in Bayesian network
modeling with regular application to environmental and human health regulation
and decision making. He is also the originator of novel approaches to climate
change assessment, combining risk analysis, game theory, and agent-based
modeling. Borsuk’s highly collaborative research has been funded by NSF, EPA,
NIH, NIEHS and USFS, and he has authored or co-authored 75 peer-reviewed
journal publications and 6 book chapters.

Borsuk received the Chauncey Starr Distinguished Young Risk Analyst Award from
the Society for Risk Analysis in 2013 and the Early Career Research Excellence
Award from the International Environmental Modelling and Software Society in
2008. Before joining the Duke faculty, Dr. Borsuk was a member of the
Dartmouth College faculty for 10 years where he held an appointment in the
Thayer School of Engineering. Dr. Borsuk received a B.S.E. in Civil
Engineering and Operations Research from Princeton University, an M.S. in
Statistics and Decision Sciences from Duke University, and a Ph.D. in
Environmental Science and Policy from Duke University. He did his post-
doctoral training in the Department of Systems Analysis, Integrated
Assessment, and Modelling (SIAM) at the Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic
Science and Technology (EAWAG), where he advanced to head of the Decision
Analysis and Integrated Assessment group.

As part of his appointment at Duke, Dr. Borsuk directs a new interdisciplinary
research and teaching initiative in risk, uncertainty, optimization and
decision-making.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Director of the RESILE Center
  * Associate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 166 Hudson Hall, Box 90287, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-1767
  * **Email Address:** mark.borsuk@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Borsuk Lab

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 2001

## Research Interests

Mathematical models for integrating scientific information on natural,
technical, and social systems; Bayesian network modeling with regular
application to environmental and human health regulation and decision making;
novel approaches to climate change assessment, combining risk analysis, game
theory, and agent-based modeling.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Chauncey Starr Distinguished Young Risk Analyst Award. Society for Risk
    Analysis. 2013
  * Early Career Research Excellence Award. International Environmental
    Modelling and Software Society. 2008

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 201L: Uncertainty Design and Optimization
  * CEE 394: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 493: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 494: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 692: Independent Study: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental
    Engineering
  * DECSCI 235: Risk
  * ECON 212: Engineering Systems Optimization and Economics
  * ECON 235: Risk
  * EGR 305: Engineering Systems Optimization and Economics
  * EGRMGMT 590: Advanced Topics in Engineering Management
  * MENG 550: Master of Engineering Internship/Project
  * MENG 551: Master of Engineering Internship/Project Assessment
  * MENG 552: Master of Engineering Supplemental Internship
  * PUBPOL 235: Risk
  * SCISOC 235: Risk

## In the News

  * The Climate Crisis is Imminent: Duke Experts Offer Their Solutions (Feb 4,
    2022 | Duke Research Blog)
  * Using Good Governance to Mitigate Natural Disasters (Dec 15, 2017)
  * Energy Initiative Awards Seven New Seed Grants (Apr 28, 2017)
  * Mark Borsuk: Valuing the Invaluable, Predicting the Unpredictable (Oct 1,
    2016)

## Representative Publications

  * Calder, RSD; Robinson, CS; Borsuk, ME, _Total Social Costs and Benefits of
    Long-Distance Hydropower Transmission._ , Environmental Science &
    Technology, vol 56 no. 24 (2022), pp. 17510-17522
    [10.1021/acs.est.2c06221] [abs].
  * Krapu, C; Borsuk, M, _A Differentiable Hydrology Approach for Modeling
    With Time-Varying Parameters_ , Water Resources Research, vol 58 no. 9
    (2022) [10.1029/2021WR031377] [abs].
  * Holt, JR; Smetzer, JR; Borsuk, ME; Laflower, D; Orwig, DA; Thompson, JR,
    _Emerald ash borer intensifies harvest regimes on private land._ ,
    Ecological Applications : a Publication of the Ecological Society of
    America, vol 32 no. 2 (2022) [10.1002/eap.2508] [abs].
  * Mavrommati, G; Borsuk, ME; Kreiley, AI; Larosee, C; Rogers, S; Burford, K;
    Howarth, RB, _A methodological framework for understanding shared social
    values in deliberative valuation_ , Ecological Economics, vol 190 (2021)
    [10.1016/j.ecolecon.2021.107185] [abs].
  * Holt, JR; Butler, BJ; Borsuk, ME; Markowski-Lindsay, M; MacLean, MG;
    Thompson, JR, _Using the Theory of Planned Behavior to Understand Family
    Forest Owners’ Intended Responses to Invasive Forest Insects_ , Society &
    Natural Resources, vol 34 no. 8 (2021), pp. 1001-1018
    [10.1080/08941920.2021.1924330] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

