

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Michael Howard Bergin

Sternberg Family Professor of Civil & Environmental Engineering

My general research focus is on the influence of air pollution on both climate
and human health. My specific interest is particulate matter (PM), and I have
done a wide range of studies on the emission, formation, deposition and
impacts of PM. I am particularly interested in how PM impacts climate by
modifying the radiation balance of the atmosphere and I have done studies in
both pristine regions of the world (Greenland and the Himalaya), as well as
hazy regions (the Southeastern US, China, and India). More recently I have
been studying the influence of PM on human health with emphasis on determining
the relative contributions of sources (such as biomass burning and vehicular
emissions) to acute health impacts. I am also involved in developing and
deploying the next generation of air quality sensors to inform citizens on the
quality of the air they are breathing so that they can make informed decisions
to improve their air. My vision involves combining a multidisciplinary,
multicultural approach to research and education that brings together
researchers from around the world to collectively work together to make the
air cleaner.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Sternberg Family Professor of Civil & Environmental Engineering
  * Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Duke Kunshan
    University
  * Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Duke Kunshan
    University
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative
  * Affiliate, Duke Global Health Institute
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 127B Hudson Hall, Box 90287, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5209
  * **Email Address:** michael.bergin@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * bergin.pratt.duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. Carnegie Mellon University, 1995

## Research Interests

Aerosols are generated by a variety of natural and anthropogenic sources. I am
interested in the processes that emit, transform and deposit particulate
matter. A current focus of my research is how particles in the atmosphere
directly modify the surface radiation balance of the Earth. This is of
importance to the climate of the Earth, as well as plant growth and
visibility. We have conducted studies at a variety of polluted urban sites as
well as pristine remote sites to understand the contrast between clean and
dirty locations. Another interest is the past impacts of aerosols on climate
through interpretation of paleorecords archived in ice cores. My work involves
a combination of lab and field studies as well as the development of
relatively simple mathematical models.

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 294: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 493: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 692: Independent Study: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental
    Engineering
  * EGR 101L: Engineering Design and Communication
  * EGR 391: Projects in Engineering
  * MENG 550: Master of Engineering Internship/Project
  * MENG 551: Master of Engineering Internship/Project Assessment
  * MENG 552: Master of Engineering Supplemental Internship

## In the News

  * Six New Bass Fellows Honored for Excellence in Research and Outstanding
    Undergraduate Teaching (Jun 1, 2021)
  * AI Pinpoints Local Pollution Hotspots Using Satellite Images (Apr 23,
    2021)
  * Spotting Air Pollution with Satellites, Better Than Ever Before (Apr 22,
    2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Bedroom Air Filters Help Asthmatic Children Breathe Easier (Apr 9, 2020 |
    Nicholas School of the Environment)
  * Pratt Undergrads Learn Fieldwork Methods by Examining Air and Water in
    China (Sep 9, 2019)
  * Seeking Solutions to Pollution, Duke, Indian Researchers Point to Need for
    Public Access to Data (Dec 14, 2018 | Duke Global)
  * Duke Launches India Initiative with Talk on Air Pollution (Sep 21, 2017 |
    Duke Global)
  * As India's Climate Changes, Farmers In The North Experiment With New Crops
    (Aug 20, 2017 | NPR Weekend Edition Sunday)
  * Research From a New Point of View (May 22, 2017 | Duke Stories)
  * From Bolivia to India: Of Our Air, Our Environment and Our Health (Apr 28,
    2017 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Taking Air Quality Research to New Heights (Apr 29, 2016)
  * Engineering Professor Offers A Personal Approach to Addressing Climate
    Issues (Dec 21, 2015)
  * Research and New Policies Protect the Lungs of India (Feb 9, 2015 | Duke
    Research Blog)
  * Michael Bergin: Studying Tiny Particles with a Giant Global Impact (Jan
    27, 2015 | Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Ratnaparkhi, A; Dave, D; Valerino, M; Bergin, M; Ghoroi, C, _Reduction in
    solar PV soiling loss using hydrophobic coating with and without dew
    suppression_ , Solar Energy, vol 253 (2023), pp. 332-342
    [10.1016/j.solener.2023.02.047] [abs].
  * Ratnaparkhi, A; Dave, D; Valerino, M; Bergin, M; Ghoroi, C, _Quantifying
    the accuracy of optical transmission loss techniques and identifying the
    best wavelengths for estimating soiling in a field study_ , Solar Energy,
    vol 252 (2023), pp. 391-400 [10.1016/j.solener.2023.02.005] [abs].
  * Norris, CL; Edwards, R; Ghoroi, C; Schauer, JJ; Black, M; Bergin, MH, _A
    Pilot Study to Quantify Volatile Organic Compounds and Their Sources
    Inside and Outside Homes in Urban India in Summer and Winter during Normal
    Daily Activities_ , Environments Mdpi, vol 9 no. 7 (2022)
    [10.3390/environments9070075] [abs].
  * Rocha-Melogno, L; Crank, KC; Ginn, O; Bergin, MH; Brown, J; Gray, GC;
    Hamilton, KA; Bibby, K; Deshusses, MA, _Quantitative microbial risk
    assessment of outdoor aerosolized pathogens in cities with poor
    sanitation._ , The Science of the Total Environment, vol 827 (2022)
    [10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.154233] [abs].
  * He, L; Norris, C; Cui, X; Li, Z; Barkjohn, KK; Teng, Y; Fang, L; Lin, L;
    Wang, Q; Zhou, X; Hong, J; Li, F; Zhang, Y; Schauer, JJ; Black, M; Bergin,
    MH; Zhang, JJ, _Oral cavity response to air pollutant exposure and
    association with pulmonary inflammation and symptoms in asthmatic
    children._ , Environmental Research, vol 206 (2022)
    [10.1016/j.envres.2021.112275] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

