

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Michael Richard Gustafson

Associate Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Dr. Gustafson received a B.S.E. in 1993 from Duke University, majoring in
Electrical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science. He
continued on at Duke to earn his M.S. (1998) and Ph.D. (1999) in Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science. He received his appointment as Assistant
Professor of the Practice of Electrical & Computer Engineering in 2005 and was
promoted to Associate Professor of the Practice in 2009. Previously, he has
served as Adjunct Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science and as Lecturing Fellow and Assistant Chair of the Civil and
Environmental Engineering Department, both at Duke. He currently holds a
secondary appointment with the Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
Department.

Professor Gustafson's primary focus is on undergraduate curriculum and
laboratory development. He is responsible for the first-year Computational
Methods in Engineering (EGR 103L) course and has also taught seventeen other
courses totaling over 100 course offerings and over 7000 students. He
previously served as a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy as a
Naval Reservist, and is authorized to wear the Navy and Marine Corps
Commendation Medal (two awards), the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal
(two awards), the National Defense Service Medal (two awards), and the
Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal. He is the 2005 recipient of the
first Capers and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and
Advising at Duke University and the 2019 recipient of the Pratt School of
Engineering Alumni Council Distinguished Service Award.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Associate Professor of the Practice in the Thomas Lord Department of
    Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 110 Science Drive, Teer Building Box 90271, Durham,
    NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5354
  * **Email Address:** mrg@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Pratt Wiki

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1999

## Research Interests

Computational methods for image analysis and information extraction, discrete
event simulations, curriculum development and deployment

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Alumnus Award of Distinction. North American Interfraternity Conference.
    2022
  * Distinguished Service Award. Engineering Alumni Council. 2019
  * The McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and Advising. Duke
    University, Pratt School of Engineering. 2005

## Courses Taught

  * ECE 110L9: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering - Lab
  * ECE 110L: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 280L9: Signals and Systems - Lab
  * ECE 280L: Introduction to Signals and Systems
  * ECE 382L: Control of Dynamic Systems
  * ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 493: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * EGR 103L9: Computational Methods in Engineering (Lab)
  * EGR 103L: Computational Methods in Engineering
  * EGR 224L: Electrical Fundamentals of Mechatronics
  * ME 344L: Control of Dynamic Systems
  * ME 392: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering

## Representative Publications

  * Williams, J; Gustafson, M; Bai, Y; Prater, S; Wade, CE; Guillamondegui,
    OD; Khan, M; Brenner, M; Ferrada, P; Roberts, D; Horer, T; Kauvar, D;
    Kirkpatrick, A; Ordonez, C; Perreira, B; Priouzram, A; Duchesne, J;
    Cotton, BA, _Limitations of Available Blood Products for Massive
    Transfusion During Mass Casualty Events at US Level 1 Trauma Centers._ ,
    Shock (Augusta, Ga.), vol 56 no. 1S (2021), pp. 62-69
    [10.1097/shk.0000000000001719] [abs].
  * Carlos, EC; Wollin, DA; Winship, BB; Jiang, R; Radvak, D; Chew, BH;
    Gustafson, MR; Simmons, WN; Zhong, P; Preminger, GM; Lipkin, ME, _In Vitro
    Comparison of a Novel Single Probe Dual-Energy Lithotripter to Current
    Devices._ , J Endourol, vol 32 no. 6 (2018), pp. 534-540
    [10.1089/end.2018.0143] [abs].
  * Huettel, L; Gustafson, MR; Nadeau, JC; Schaad, D; Barger, MM; Linnenbrink-
    Garcia, L, _A grand challenge-based framework for contextual learning in
    engineering: Impact on student outcomes and motivation_ , Asee Annual
    Conference and Exposition, Conference Proceedings, vol 122nd ASEE Annual
    Conference and Exposition: Making Value for Society no. 122nd ASEE Annual
    Conference and Exposition: Making Value for Society (2015) [abs].
  * Huettel, L; Gustafson, MR; Nadeau, JC; Schaad, DE; Barger, MM;
    Linnenbrink-Garcia, L, _Evidence for the effectiveness of a grand
    challenge-based framework for contextual learning_ , Asee Annual
    Conference and Exposition, Conference Proceedings (2014) [abs].
  * Huettel, LG; Gustafson, MR; Nadeau, JC; Schaad, D; Barger, MM;
    Linnenbrink-Garcia, L, _A grand challenge-based framework for contextual
    learning in engineering_ , Asee Annual Conference and Exposition,
    Conference Proceedings (2013) [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

