

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Mikhail Albertovich Nikiforov

Professor of Pathology

Mechanism of Deregulated GTP Metabolism in Cancer Cells

GTP-binding proteins (G proteins) regulate a vast variety of cellular
processes and are frequently hyper-activated in human cancers. Enzymes
controlling the de novo biosynthesis of GTP are also substantially deregulated
during tumorigenesis and metastasis. Historically, changes in GTP levels were
not considered as a regulatory step in activation of G-proteins in live cells.
This is because average intracellular GTP concentration measured by HPLC or
mass spectrometry (~500µM) is much higher than the GTP dissociation constant
(Kd) of multiple G-proteins including small RHO-GTPases RAC1 or RHOA.

Up until now no methods existed to detect fluctuations of free GTP in live
cells. We recently reported genetically encoded intracellular sensors of free
GTP. (Bianchi-Smiraglia et al, Nature Methods, 2017) These sensors for the
first time made possible visualization of free GTP changes in live cells and
identified regions with low (~30µM) and high local GTP concentration.

Furthermore, by combining genetically encoded GTP biosensors and a RAC1
activity biosensor, we demonstrated that GTP levels fluctuating around
RAC1-GTP Kd correlated with RAC1 activity in live cells. RAC1 colocalized in
protrusions of invading cells with several guanylate metabolism enzymes,
including rate-limiting inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase 2 (IMPDH2), GMPR,
GMPS and NME (see a diagram). Substitution of endogenous IMPDH2 with IMPDH2
mutants incapable of binding RAC1 did not affect total intracellular GTP
levels but suppressed RAC1 activity. Accordingly, targeting IMPDH2 away from
the plasma membrane did not alter total intracellular GTP pools but decreased
GTP levels in cell protrusions, RAC1 activity, and cell invasion. ( Bianchi-
Smiraglia et al, Nature Communications, 2021) These findings represent a
paradigm shift in the understanding of Rac1 regulation (Step 4 on the
diagram). Currently we study mechanisms of intracellular GTP distribution and
explore the anti-guanylate therapy as novel strategy for melanoma
intervention.

Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell disorder that accounts for
approximately 10% of all hematologic malignancies. Due to high immunoglobulin
production in endoplasmic reticulum (ER), MM cells continuously undergo ER
stress. This feature makes MM susceptible to agents that exacerbate ER stress,
such as proteasome inhibitor bortezomib. Yet currently MM is incurable for
most patients due to rapidly developing resistance to proteasome inhibition.
Recently by studying global metabolome and transcriptome in cultured and
patient MM cells, we identified key enzymes involved in regulation of
endoplasmic reticulum and oxidative stress (KLF9 and TXNRD2), polyamine
metabolism (ODC1 and AZIN1), and fatty acid biosynthesis (fatty acid elongase
ELOVL6, see a diagram) as major clinically relevant regulators of multiple
myeloma resistance to bortezomib. (Fink et al, Leukemia; Fink et al, Cell
Reports; Bianchi-Smiraglia et al, Journal of Clinical Investigation, 2018;
Lipchick et al, Blood Adv, 2021) For some of the identified enzymes we
uncovered mechanism of their involvement in control of MM cell viability,
whereas the function of others is currently being pursued.

Identification of lineage-specific transcription factors is important for
understanding how the disease is manifested in different tissues. Of a
particular interest are transcription factors oppositely regulating phenotypes
in different lineages. In epithelial cells, E/N cadherin switch represents a
hallmark of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), a process by which static
cells acquire a mesenchymal-like phenotype, including migratory and invasive
capabilities. In search for transcription factors regulating the EMT-like
transition in melanocytic cells, we evaluated several bona fide regulators of
EMT. One of them, FOXQ1, a member of FOX family of transcription factors, is
overexpressed at advanced stages in several human carcinomas where it promotes
E/N-cadherin switch ultimately leading to increased invasion.

Unexpectedly, we found that FOXQ1 levels are significantly lower in metastatic
melanoma specimens compared to primary melanomas. Accordingly, we identified
that in melanoma cells, FOXQ1 suppresses the same processes it activates in
carcinoma cells: expression of N-cadherin gene (CDH2), EMT, invasion, and
metastasis.

Mechanistically, we demonstrated that like LEF1/TCF4, FOXQ1 interacts with
nuclear b-catenin and TLE (groucho) proteins and that the b-catenin/TLE ratio,
which is higher in carcinoma than melanoma cells, determines the effect of
FOXQ1 on N-cadherin gene transcription (see diagram). Accordingly, other
FOXQ1-dependent phenotypes can be manipulated by altering nuclear ß-catenin or
TLE proteins levels. (Bagati et al, Cell Reports, 2017)

Intriguingly, FOXQ1 is also involved in regulation of differentiation in
normal melanocytes (Bagati et al, Cell Death and Differentiation, 2018) and
keratinocytes via yet unknown mechanisms. Currently, we are establishing such
mechanisms and in parallel pursuing the role of Foxq1 in skin biogenesis in
mouse models.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Pathology
  * Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 210 Research Drive, GSRB Ii, Rm. 4020, Durham, NC
    27710
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 668-8283
  * **Email Address:** mikhail.nikiforov@duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. University of Illinois, 1997
  * M.S. Lomonosov Moscow State University (Russia), 1992
  * B.S. Lomonosov Moscow State University (Russia), 1992

## Research Interests

The main objectives of Professor Nikiforov’s research program includes
identification and therapeutic exploitation of mechanisms underlying the
deregulated transcription programs and metabolism in melanoma and multiple
myeloma, two malignancies with no curative treatment. Nikiforov pursues these
objectives by integrating in vitro and in vivo approaches of biomedical
engineering, functional genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics and
metabolomics.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 570L: Introduction to Biomolecular Engineering (GE, BB, MC)
  * BME 590: Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering
  * PATHOL 793: Research Independent Study

## Representative Publications

  * Wolff, DW; Bianchi-Smiraglia, A; Nikiforov, MA, _Compartmentalization and
    regulation of GTP in control of cellular phenotypes._ , Trends Mol Med,
    vol 28 no. 9 (2022), pp. 758-769 [10.1016/j.molmed.2022.05.012] [abs].
  * Wolff, DW; Deng, Z; Bianchi-Smiraglia, A; Foley, CE; Han, Z; Wang, X;
    Shen, S; Rosenberg, MM; Moparthy, S; Yun, DH; Chen, J; Baker, BK; Roll,
    MV; Magiera, AJ; Li, J; Hurley, E; Feltri, ML; Cox, AO; Lee, J; Furdui,
    CM; Liu, L; Bshara, W; LaConte, LEW; Kandel, ES; Pasquale, EB; Qu, J;
    Hedstrom, L; Nikiforov, MA, _Phosphorylation of guanosine monophosphate
    reductase triggers a GTP-dependent switch from pro- to anti-oncogenic
    function of EPHA4._ , Cell Chem Biol, vol 29 no. 6 (2022), pp. 970-984.e6
    [10.1016/j.chembiol.2022.01.007] [abs].
  * Bianchi-Smiraglia, A; Wolff, DW; Marston, DJ; Deng, Z; Han, Z; Moparthy,
    S; Wombacher, RM; Mussell, AL; Shen, S; Chen, J; Yun, D-H; O'Brien Cox, A;
    Furdui, CM; Hurley, E; Feltri, ML; Qu, J; Hollis, T; Kengne, JBN; Fongang,
    B; Sousa, RJ; Kandel, ME; Kandel, ES; Hahn, KM; Nikiforov, MA, _Regulation
    of local GTP availability controls RAC1 activity and cell invasion._ ,
    Nature Communications, vol 12 no. 1 (2021) [10.1038/s41467-021-26324-6]
    [abs].
  * Lipchick, BC; Utley, A; Han, Z; Moparthy, S; Yun, DH; Bianchi-Smiraglia,
    A; Wolff, DW; Fink, E; Liu, L; Furdui, CM; Lee, J; Lee, KP; Nikiforov, MA,
    _The fatty acid elongase ELOVL6 regulates bortezomib resistance in
    multiple myeloma_ , Blood Advances, vol 5 no. 7 (2021), pp. 1933-1946
    [10.1182/bloodadvances.2020002578] [abs].
  * Fink, EE; Moparthy, S; Bagati, A; Bianchi-Smiraglia, A; Lipchick, BC;
    Wolff, DW; Roll, MV; Wang, J; Liu, S; Bakin, AV; Kandel, ES; Lee, A-H;
    Nikiforov, MA, _XBP1-KLF9 Axis Acts as a Molecular Rheostat to Control the
    Transition from Adaptive to Cytotoxic Unfolded Protein Response_ , Cell
    Reports, vol 25 no. 1 (2018), pp. 212-223.e4
    [10.1016/j.celrep.2018.09.013] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

