

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Nathaniel Chaney

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Prior to arriving at Duke, I was a postdoctoral research associate in the
program in Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences at Princeton University and had a
dual appointment as a visiting research scientist at the NOAA Geophysical
Fluid Dynamics Laboratory. I obtained my undergraduate degree at U.C. Berkeley
where I received a Bachelor of Arts in Atmospheric Sciences and Applied
Mathematics. For my graduate studies, I attended Princeton University where I
completed a Ph.D. in Hydrology in the department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering.

My research harnesses the existing petabytes of global environmental data to
improve understanding of the terrestrial water cycle. More specifically, I
focus on quantifying and uncovering the role of multi-scale spatial
organization over land (i.e., heterogeneity) in the Earth system. To this end,
my group's research has three overarching themes: 1) improve the
representation of land heterogeneity in Earth system models, 2) harness
environmental data to characterize the observed spatial patterns and features
over land, and 3) quantify the sensitivity of the hydrologic cycle to spatial
heterogeneity. The tools that my group uses include numerical modeling,
satellite remote sensing, machine learning, and high performance computing.

I am currently looking for highly motivated Ph.D. and postdocs. If the
research themes of my group are of interest to you, please don't hesitate to
email me.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** CIEMAS 2463, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5195
  * **Email Address:** nathaniel.chaney@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * www.chaneylab.earth

## Education

  * Ph.D. Princeton University, 2015

## Research Interests

Hydrology, Earth system science, soil science, ecology, geomorphology,
numerical modeling, high performance computing, machine learning,
environmental data delivery and data assimilation.

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 506: Environmental Spatial Data Analysis
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 691: Independent Study: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental
    Engineering
  * CEE 692: Independent Study: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental
    Engineering
  * CEE 701: Graduate Colloquium

## In the News

  * Climate Scientists Listen to the Clouds (Jan 10, 2023 | Duke Magazine)
  * Duke Experts on Hurricane Recovery: Need a Long-Term Focus (Sep 30, 2022 |
    Duke News)
  * A Step Toward Better Weather Forecasts (Nov 2, 2021 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Hurricanes: How to Prepare and Why They’re Getting More Dangerous (Sep 4,
    2019)
  * What Researchers Are Watching Out For This Hurricane Season (May 28, 2019
    | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Nathaniel Chaney: Harnessing Petabytes to Better Understand the Global
    Water Cycle (Aug 27, 2018 | Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Chaney, NW; Van Huijgevoort, MHJ; Shevliakova, E; Malyshev, S; Milly, PCD;
    Gauthier, PPG; Sulman, BN, _Harnessing big data to rethink land
    heterogeneity in Earth system models_ , Hydrology and Earth System
    Sciences, vol 22 no. 6 (2018), pp. 3311-3330 [10.5194/hess-22-3311-2018]
    [abs].
  * Chaney, NW; Metcalfe, P; Wood, EF, _HydroBlocks: a field-scale resolving
    land surface model for application over continental extents_ ,
    Hydrological Processes, vol 30 no. 20 (2016), pp. 3543-3559
    [10.1002/hyp.10891] [abs].
  * Chaney, NW; Wood, EF; McBratney, AB; Hempel, JW; Nauman, TW; Brungard, CW;
    Odgers, NP, _POLARIS: A 30-meter probabilistic soil series map of the
    contiguous United States_ , Geoderma, vol 274 (2016), pp. 54-67
    [10.1016/j.geoderma.2016.03.025] [abs].
  * Chaney, NW; Herman, JD; Reed, PM; Wood, EF, _Flood and drought hydrologic
    monitoring: The role of model parameter uncertainty_ , Hydrology and Earth
    System Sciences, vol 19 no. 7 (2015), pp. 3239-3251
    [10.5194/hess-19-3239-2015] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

