

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Nenad Bursac

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Bursac's research interests include: Stem cell, tissue engineering, and gene
based therapies for heart and muscle regeneration; Cardiac electrophysiology
and arrhythmias; Organ-on-chip and tissue engineering technologies for disease
modeling and therapeutic screening; Small and large animal models of heart and
muscle injury, disease, and regeneration.

The focus of my research is on application of pluripotent stem cells, tissue
engineering, and gene therapy technologies for: 1) basic studies of striated
muscle biology and disease in vitro and 2) regenerative therapies in small and
large animal models in vivo. For in vitro studies, micropatterning of
extracellular matrix proteins or protein hydrogels and 3D cell culture are
used to engineer rodent and human striated muscle tissues that replicate the
structure-function relationships present in healthy and diseased muscles. We
use these models to separate and systematically study the roles of structural
and genetic factors that contribute cardiac and skeletal muscle function and
disease at multiple organizational levels, from single cells to tissues.
Combining cardiac and skeletal muscle cells with primary or iPSC-derived non-
muscle cells (endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, immune system cells,
neurons) allows us to generate more realistic models of healthy and diseased
human tissues and utilize them to mechanistically study molecular and cellular
processes of tissue injury, vascularization, innervation, electromechanical
integration, fibrosis, and functional repair. Currently, in vitro models of
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Pompe disease, dyspherlinopathies, and various
cardiomyopathies are studied in the lab. For in vivo studies, we employ rodent
models of volumetric skeletal muscle loss, cardiotoxin and BaCl2 injury as
well as myocardial infarction and transverse aortic constriction to study how
cell, tissue engineering, and gene (viral) therapies can lead to safe and
efficient tissue repair and regeneration. In large animal (porcine) models of
myocardial injury and arrhythmias, we are exploring how human iPSC derived
heart tissue patches and application of engineered ion channels can improve
cardiac function and prevent heart failure or sudden cardiac death.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Associate Professor in Medicine
  * Professor in Cell Biology
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute
  * Co-Director of the Duke Regeneration Center

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** CIEMAS 1141, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5510
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar
    * http://bursaclab.bme.duke.edu/

## Education

  * Ph.D. Boston University, 2000
  * B.S.E. University of Belgrade (Serbia), 1994

## Research Interests

Embryonic and adult stem cell therapies for heart and muscle disease; cardiac
and skeletal muscle tissue engineering; cardiac electrophysiology and
arrhythmias; genetic modifications of stem and somatic cells; micropatterning
of proteins and hydrogels.

## Courses Taught

  * BIOLOGY 493: Research Independent Study
  * BME 301L: Bioelectricity (AC or GE)
  * BME 394: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 507: Cardiovascular System Engineering, Disease and Therapy (GE, BB,
    EL)
  * BME 578: Quantitative Cell and Tissue Engineering (GE, BB, MC)
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * CELLBIO 493: Research Independent Study
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * NEUROSCI 301L: Bioelectricity (AC or GE)

## In the News

  * Gene Therapy for Heart Attacks in Mice Just Got More Precise (Dec 13,
    2022)
  * Mending a Broken Heart (Feb 11, 2022)
  * Tweaked Genes Borrowed From Bacteria Excite Heart Cells in Live Mice (Feb
    3, 2022 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Exercising Muscle Combats Chronic Inflammation On Its Own (Jan 25, 2021 |
    Pratt School of Engineering)
  * No Ordinary Gel: New Tools to Help the Body Repair Brain and Muscle Tissue
    (Nov 5, 2019 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Immune Cells Help Older Muscles Heal Like New (Oct 1, 2018 | Pratt School
    of Engineering)
  * Building a Better Brain (Aug 6, 2018 | Duke Medicine Alumni Magazine)
  * Inner Workings: The race to patch the human heart (Jun 27, 2018)
  * Engineers Grow Functioning Human Muscle from Skin Cells (Jan 9, 2018 |
    Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Beating Heart Patch is Large Enough to Repair the Human Heart (Nov 28,
    2017 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Beating Heart Patch is Large Enough to Repair the Human Heart (Nov 28,
    2017 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Bacterial Genes Boost Current in Human Cells (Oct 18, 2016 | Pratt School
    of Engineering)
  * Bacterial Genes Boost Current in Human Cells (Oct 18, 2016)
  * Tissue-Patching a Broken Heart (Oct 6, 2016)
  * Tissue-Patching a Broken Heart (Oct 6, 2016 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Nerd Watch video: Duke researchers work to grow custom muscles (Mar 24,
    2015 | NBC News)
  * First Contracting Human Muscle Grown in Lab (Jan 13, 2015)
  * First Contracting Human Muscle Grown in Laboratory (Jan 13, 2015 | Pratt
    School of Engineering)
  * Self-healing muscles (May 23, 2014 | UNC-TV’s "North Carolina Now")
  * Scientists progress in quest to grow muscle tissue (Apr 8, 2014 | The Wall
    Street Journal)
  * Scientists create the first lab-grown muscle that's 'as strong as the real
    thing’ (Apr 2, 2014 | The Independent)
  * Self-Healing Engineered Muscle Grown in the Laboratory (Apr 1, 2014)
  * Scientists grow muscles in the lab that can heal themselves (Apr 1, 2014 |
    NBC News)
  * Self-healing muscle grown in the lab (Apr 1, 2014 | BBC News)
  * Self-Healing Engineered Muscle Grown in the Laboratory (Mar 31, 2014 |
    Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Yan, R; Cigliola, V; Oonk, KA; Petrover, Z; DeLuca, S; Wolfson, DW;
    Vekstein, A; Mendiola, MA; Devlin, G; Bishawi, M; Gemberling, MP; Sinha,
    T; Sargent, MA; York, AJ; Shakked, A; DeBenedittis, P; Wendell, DC; Ou, J;
    Kang, J; Goldman, JA; Baht, GS; Karra, R; Williams, AR; Bowles, DE;
    Asokan, A; Tzahor, E; Gersbach, CA; Molkentin, JD; Bursac, N; Black, BL;
    Poss, KD, _An enhancer-based gene-therapy strategy for spatiotemporal
    control of cargoes during tissue repair._ , Cell Stem Cell, vol 30 no. 1
    (2023), pp. 96-111.e6 [10.1016/j.stem.2022.11.012] [abs].
  * Lee, DE; McKay, LK; Bareja, A; Li, Y; Khodabukus, A; Bursac, N; Taylor,
    GA; Baht, GS; White, JP, _Meteorin-like is an injectable peptide that can
    enhance regeneration in aged muscle through immune-driven fibro/adipogenic
    progenitor signaling._ , Nature Communications, vol 13 no. 1 (2022)
    [10.1038/s41467-022-35390-3] [abs].
  * Scherba, JC; Karra, R; Turek, JW; Bursac, N, _Toward improved
    understanding of cardiac development and congenital heart disease: The
    advent of cardiac organoids._ , The Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular
    Surgery, vol 164 no. 6 (2022), pp. 2013-2018 [10.1016/j.jtcvs.2022.02.028]
    [abs].
  * Khodabukus, A; Guyer, T; Moore, AC; Stevens, MM; Guldberg, RE; Bursac, N,
    _Translating musculoskeletal bioengineering into tissue regeneration
    therapies._ , Science Translational Medicine, vol 14 no. 666 (2022)
    [10.1126/scitranslmed.abn9074] [abs].
  * Scherba, JC; Halushka, MK; Andersen, ND; Maleszewski, JJ; Landstrom, AP;
    Bursac, N; Glass, C, _BRG1 is a biomarker of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
    in human heart specimens._ , Scientific Reports, vol 12 no. 1 (2022)
    [10.1038/s41598-022-11829-x] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

