

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home Â» Faculty Profiles

# Olaf T. Von Ramm

Thomas Lord Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Dr. von Ramm's research interests include diagnostic ultrasound imaging
systems, IR imaging, medical instrumentation and  
their new applications.

**Ultrasound Imaging.** The main direction of research is a development of new
ultrasonic techniques for better visualization of the human anatomy, improved
ultrasonic detection of tumors and other space occupying lesions as well as
improved detection and visualization of blood flow. Several generations of
phased array Ultrasound imaging systems have been designed and constructed in
our laboratories to assist the clinical value of various novel Ultrasound
imaging techniques. Research interests range from basic physics of acoustics
and properties of materials required in transducer construction, through the
design and construction of advanced imaging systems, to the clinical
application and evaluation of new instruments or measurement principles. Of
particular interest has been the quantization of cardiac function using
Ultrasound.

High Speed Ultrasound Imaging is a project with a long-term goal to design,
construct and clinically evaluate a real-time volumetric (3-D) ultrasonic
imaging system which is also capable of visualizing and accurately
representing blood flow in three dimensions. This instrument will permit the
non-invasive assessment of tumor and organ volumes as well as cardiac chamber
volumes. Such measurements have the potential of improving decision on tumor
treatment, of assessing congenital and pathological states of various organs
and of evaluating cardiac function on a serial basis. Incorporation of angle-
independent 3-D flow measurements will permit the rapid noninvasive assessment
of flow in major peripheral vessels, deep abdominal vessels and coronary
arteries. Flow imaging will also delineate the lumen of the vessel thereby
simplifying detection of atherosclerotic clacks.  

Another project Real-Time 3-D Ultrasonic Data Acquisition, is aimed at the
design, construction and evaluation of a new generation pulsed array
Ultrasound imaging system based on VLSI ASICs and specialized linear
integrated circuits. This system will eventually feature256 parallel receive
channels with 64 to 1 parallel processing. Up to 64simultaneous B-mode will be
acquired in real time so that virtually any view of the anatomy can be
visualized on line.  

Scatter Imaging is the focus of yet another research effort which is directed
toward imaging with Ultrasound energies scattered at various angles from soft
tissue. Studies are directed towards assessing the viability of such imaging
and improving contrast between tissue types and generally improving image
quality. This method may also permit the quantitative determination of
physical tissue parameters such as ultrasonic propagation velocities.  

Medical Center equipment totally dedicated to the Ultrasound work includes the
second generation phased array instrument constructed at Duke, a VAX11/780, a
Kontron image processor, electronic test equipment, extensive video equipment
including an In star 240 frame per second instrument. In addition there are 9
commercial phased array instruments in clinical use with various transducer
probes that can be scheduled for research purposes.

**Cardiovascular Technologies.** The National Science Foundation Engineering
Research Center for Emerging Cardiovascular Technologies (NSF/ERC) at Duke
University incorporates the latest knowledge and methodology in custom
integrated electronics, biosensors, system design, and simulation to develop a
new generation of Cardiac Interventional and Medical Imaging Systems. This
interdisciplinary Center brings together the active research programs of well-
established engineering and biomedical researchers and industrial
investigators to advance biomedical systems, devices, and instrumentation in
the coming decade. Research interests include the study of interventional
stimulation and catheterization procedures aimed at the development of a new
generation of devices and procedures for the treatment of arrhythmias,
atherosclerosis, and other vascular diseases. Research contributors possess
highly specialized skills in medical research, biomedical engineering,
electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, materials science, and micro
electronic technology. All of these skills are required in a systems approach
to developing implantable devices and interventional methods.  
  
  
  
Other research groups focus on the development of high speed 3-D imaging
systems including two major projects: 3-D real-time ultrasonic imaging and
magnetic resonance microscopy. The extensions of these modalities to dynamic,
three-dimensional imaging capabilities should double the present Ultrasound
and magnetic resonance imaging sales. These imaging and display systems will
also be of major importance in the in vivo evaluation of the systems.  

  
  
The vision of current cardiac stimulation research projects is to prevent
sudden cardiac death by developing several different types of high technology
devices to be implanted within the body. These devices will halt or prevent
ventricular fibrillation, the primary cause of sudden cardiac death.  
  
  
  
The key technical problems blocking advances in the development of devices to
prevent sudden cardiac death are a lack of knowledge of (a) the distribution
of the electrical field created throughout the heart by a set of stimulating
electrodes, (b) the reaction of the heart cells to a given electrical field as
a function of the cell's electrophysiologic state at the time of the shock,
and (c) the individuals who are at risk for sudden cardiac death and thus are
candidates for these devices.

  

The key research goals and objectives are to obtain and evaluate experimental
knowledge by using specially constructed, computer-assisted data acquisition
systems and electrode arrays to record the intrinsic electrical activity of
the heart before and after a large electrical stimulus, as well as the
potentials created throughout the heart by the stimulus itself. The
correctness of bioelectric simulation and concepts are assessed by comparing
these predictions to the measured data.  
  
  
  
This work is strongly dependent on the circuits, sensors, and simulation
research projects that are significant strengths of the NSF/ERC program.
Investigators are developing systems requirements and specifications for array
transducers, custom integrated circuits, integrated systems, biosensors, and
simulations that focus the core research activities in micro electronics and
biosensor design and fabrication.  

  
  
A major goal of this Center is to improve engineering educational programs by
expanding the opportunities for engineering students to interact with
industrial investigators. In particular, the Center is initiating an approach
to graduate and undergraduate engineering education in which NSF/ERC Fellows
receive substantive advising and individually tailored instruction from
leading engineers in industry.  

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Thomas Lord Distinguished Professor of Engineering
  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor in Medicine

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 2589 Fciemas, 101 Science Drive, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5137
  * **Email Address:** olaf.vonramm@duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1973
  * M.S. University of Toronto (Canada), 1970
  * B.S. University of Toronto (Canada), 1968

## Research Interests

Diagnostic ultrasound imaging systems, IR imaging, medical instrumentation and
their new applications.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellow. American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering. 1998

## Courses Taught

  * BME 464L: Medical Instrument Design (DR)
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 542: Principles of Ultrasound Imaging (GE, IM)
  * BME 543L: Cardiac Ultrasound Imaging and Function (GE, IM)

## In the News

  * The Pioneers of 3D Ultrasound (Apr 1, 2018 | Duke Biomedical Engineering)
  * Thurstone Medical Imaging Fellowship Awarded to Duke BME PhD Candidate
    (Nov 13, 2013 | Duke University Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Andersen, MS; Moore, C; LeFevre, M; Arges, K; Friedman, DJ; Atwater, BD;
    Kisslo, J; SÃ¸gaard, P; Struijk, JJ; von Ramm, OT; Schmidt, SE,
    _Contractile Fronts In The Interventricular Septum: A Case For High Frame
    Rate Echocardiographic Imaging._ , Ultrasound Med Biol, vol 46 no. 9
    (2020), pp. 2181-2192 [10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2020.04.028] [abs].
  * Andersen, MV; Moore, C; SÃ¸gaard, P; Friedman, D; Atwater, BD; Arges, K;
    LeFevre, M; Struijk, JJ; Kisslo, J; Schmidt, SE; von Ramm, OT,
    _Quantitative Parameters of High-Frame-Rate Strain in Patients with
    Echocardiographically Normal Function._ , Ultrasound Med Biol, vol 45 no.
    5 (2019), pp. 1197-1207 [10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2018.11.007] [abs].
  * Andersen, M; Moore, C; Ages, K; Lefevre, M; Schmidt, S; Kisslo, J; Von
    Ramm, OT, _Notice of Removal: High speed clinical Strain measurements_ ,
    Ieee International Ultrasonics Symposium, Ius, vol 0 (2017)
    [10.1109/ULTSYM.2017.8091915] [abs].
  * Andersen, MV; Moore, C; Arges, K; SÃ¸gaard, P; Ãstergaard, LR; Schmidt, SE;
    Kisslo, J; Von Ramm, OT, _High-Frame-Rate Deformation Imaging in Two
    Dimensions Using Continuous Speckle-Feature Tracking._ , Ultrasound Med
    Biol, vol 42 no. 11 (2016), pp. 2606-2615
    [10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2016.07.009] [abs].
  * Andersen, MV; Moore, C; Schmidt, SE; Sogaard, P; Struijk, JJ; Kisslo, J;
    Von Ramm, OT, _Feature tracking algorithm for circumferential strain using
    high frame rate echocardiography_ , Computing in Cardiology, vol 43
    (2016), pp. 885-888 [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

