

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Olivier Delaire

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

The Delaire group investigates atomistic transport processes of energy and
charge, and thermodynamics in energy materials. We use a combined experimental
and computational approach to understand and control microscopic energy
transport for the design of next-generation materials, in particular for
sustainable energy applications. Current materials of interest include
superionic conductors, photovoltaics, thermoelectrics,
ferroelectrics/multiferroics, and metal-insulator transitions. Our group's
studies provide fundamental insights into atomic dynamics and elementary
excitations in condensed-matter systems (phonons, electrons, spins), their
couplings and their effects on macroscopic properties. We probe the
microscopic underpinnings of transport and thermodynamics properties by
integrating neutron and x-ray scattering, optical spectroscopy, and thermal
characterization, together with quantum-mechanical computer simulations.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
  * Associate Professor of Physics
  * Associate Professor of Chemistry
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 144 Hudson Hall, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5310
  * **Email Address:** olivier.delaire@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Delaire research group

## Education

  * Ph.D. California Institute of Technology, 2006
  * M.Sc. Pennsylvania State University, 2000

## Research Interests

Olivier Delaire investigates atomic dynamics in materials, focusing on
problems at the interface of Materials Science, Physics and Chemistry. His
research group utilizes a range of experimental and computational approaches,
including neutron and x-ray scattering techniques, optical spectroscopy, and
first-principles quantum materials simulations.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * DOE EARLY CAREER AWARD 2014 “Quasiparticle Couplings in Transport of Heat,
    Charge, and Spin for Novel Energy Materials”. Department of Energy. 2014
  * World Materials Research Institute Forum Prize, 2nd International Workshop
    for Young Materials Scientists, Berlin, Germany. World Materials Research
    Institute. 2010
  * Director's Award, Outstanding Science Team Accomplishment. Oak Ridge
    National Laboratory. 2009
  * Clifford G. Shull Fellowship. Oak Ridge National Laboratory. 2008
  * Louis Rosen Prize. Los Alamos National Laboratory . 2008
  * Outstanding Ph.D. Research Award. Neutron Scattering Society of America.
    2006

## Courses Taught

  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 510: Diffraction and Spectrometry of Materials
  * ME 591: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 758S: Curricular Practical Training
  * MSEG 591: Independent Study

## In the News

  * Molecular Paddlewheels Propel Sodium Ions Through Next-Generation
    Batteries (Jan 13, 2022 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Twisting, Flexible Crystals Key to Solar Energy Production (Mar 15, 2021 |
    Pratt School of Engineering)
  * 'Floppy' atomic dynamics help turn heat into electricity (Sep 4, 2020 |
    Phys.org)
  * ORNL spectrometry research advances race toward safer rechargeable
    batteries (May 27, 2020 | Oak Ridge National Laboratory)
  * New Handle for Controlling Electromagnetic Properties Could Enable
    Spintronic Computing (Apr 13, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Copper Ions Flow Like Liquid through the Frozen Atomic Network of a
    Crystal (Oct 8, 2018 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * This Metal Conducts Electricity But Not Heat (Feb 2, 2017 | Forbes)
  * Olivier Delaire: Designing Thermoelectric Materials One Atom at a Time
    (Oct 22, 2015 | Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Lanigan-Atkins, T; He, X; Krogstad, MJ; Pajerowski, DM; Abernathy, DL; Xu,
    GNMN; Xu, Z; Chung, D-Y; Kanatzidis, MG; Rosenkranz, S; Osborn, R;
    Delaire, O, _Two-dimensional overdamped fluctuations of the soft
    perovskite lattice in CsPbBr3._ , Nature Materials, vol 20 no. 7 (2021),
    pp. 977-983 [10.1038/s41563-021-00947-y] [abs].
  * Niedziela, JL; Bansal, D; Ding, J; Lanigan-Atkins, T; Li, C; May, AF;
    Wang, H; Lin, JYY; Abernathy, DL; Ehlers, G; Huq, A; Parshall, D; Lynn,
    JW; Delaire, O, _Controlling phonon lifetimes via sublattice disordering
    in AgBiSe2_ , Physical Review Materials, vol 4 no. 10 (2020)
    [10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.4.105402] [abs].
  * Lanigan-Atkins, T; Yang, S; Niedziela, JL; Bansal, D; May, AF; Puretzky,
    AA; Lin, JYY; Pajerowski, DM; Hong, T; Chi, S; Ehlers, G; Delaire, O,
    _Extended anharmonic collapse of phonon dispersions in SnS and SnSe_ ,
    Nature Communications, vol 11 no. 1 (2020) [10.1038/s41467-020-18121-4]
    [abs].
  * Ding, J; Niedziela, JL; Bansal, D; Wang, J; He, X; May, AF; Ehlers, G;
    Abernathy, DL; Said, A; Alatas, A; Ren, Y; Arya, G; Delaire, O,
    _Anharmonic lattice dynamics and superionic transition in AgCrSe  
2_, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of
America, vol 117 no. 8 (2020), pp. 3930-3937 [10.1073/pnas.1913916117] [abs].

  * He, X; Bansal, D; Winn, B; Chi, S; Boatner, L; Delaire, O, _Anharmonic
    Eigenvectors and Acoustic Phonon Disappearance in Quantum Paraelectric  
SrTiO3_, Physical Review Letters, vol 124 no. 14 (2020)
[10.1103/physrevlett.124.145901] [abs].

  * Bansal, D; Niedziela, JL; Calder, S; Lanigan-Atkins, T; Rawl, R; Said, AH;
    Abernathy, DL; Kolesnikov, AI; Zhou, H; Delaire, O, _Magnetically driven
    phonon instability enables the metal–insulator transition in h-FeS_ ,
    Nature Physics (2020) [10.1038/s41567-020-0857-1] [abs].
  * Bansal, D; Niedziela, JL; He, X; Lanigan-Atkins, T; Said, A; Alatas, A;
    Abernathy, DL; Ren, Y; Gao, B; Cheong, SW; Delaire, O, _Lattice dynamics
    of the hybrid improper ferroelectrics (Ca,Sr)3Ti2 O7_ , Physical Review B,
    vol 100 no. 21 (2019) [10.1103/PhysRevB.100.214304] [abs].
  * Leiner, JC; Jeschke, HO; Valentí, R; Zhang, S; Savici, AT; Lin, JYY;
    Stone, MB; Lumsden, MD; Hong, J; Delaire, O; Bao, W; Broholm, CL,
    _Frustrated Magnetism in Mott Insulating (V1-xCrx)2 O3_ , Physical Review
    X, vol 9 no. 1 (2019) [10.1103/PhysRevX.9.011035] [abs].
  * Niedziela, JL; Bansal, D; May, AF; Ding, J; Lanigan-Atkins, T; Ehlers, G;
    Abernathy, DL; Said, A; Delaire, O, _Selective breakdown of phonon
    quasiparticles across superionic transition in CuCrSe 2_ , Nature Physics,
    vol 15 no. 1 (2019), pp. 73-78 [10.1038/s41567-018-0298-2] [abs].
  * Bansal, D; Niedziela, JL; Sinclair, R; Garlea, VO; Abernathy, DL; Chi, S;
    Ren, Y; Zhou, H; Delaire, O, _Momentum-resolved observations of the phonon
    instability driving geometric improper ferroelectricity in yttrium
    manganite_ , Nature Communications, vol 9 no. 1 (2018)
    [10.1038/s41467-017-02309-2] [abs].
  * Wall, S; Yang, S; Vidas, L; Chollet, M; Glownia, JM; Kozina, M; Katayama,
    T; Henighan, T; Jiang, M; Miller, TA; Reis, DA; Boatner, LA; Delaire, O;
    Trigo, M, _Ultrafast disordering of vanadium dimers in photoexcited VO  
2_, Science (New York, N.Y.), vol 362 no. 6414 (2018), pp. 572-576
[10.1126/science.aau3873] [abs].

  * Liu, K; Lee, S; Yang, S; Delaire, O; Wu, J, _Recent progresses on physics
    and applications of vanadium dioxide_ , Materials Today, vol 21 no. 8
    (2018), pp. 875-896 [10.1016/j.mattod.2018.03.029] [abs].
  * Muy, S; Bachman, J; Giordano, L; Abernathy, D; Bansal, D; Delaire, O;
    Kanno, R; Maglia, F; Lupart, S; Shao-Horn, Y, _Mobility and stability
    descriptors of lithium ion conductors based on lattice dynamics_ ,
    Abstracts of Papers of the American Chemical Society, vol 255 (2018)
    [abs].
  * Luo, C; Bansal, D; Li, J; Viehland, D; Winn, B; Ren, Y; Li, X; Luo, H;
    Delaire, O, _Neutron and x-ray scattering study of phonon dispersion and
    diffuse scattering in (Na,Bi)Ti O3-xBaTi O3 single crystals near the
    morphotropic phase boundary_ , Physical Review B, vol 96 no. 17 (2017)
    [10.1103/PhysRevB.96.174108] [abs].
  * Bansal, D; Niedziela, JL; May, AF; Said, A; Ehlers, G; Abernathy, DL; Huq,
    A; Kirkham, M; Zhou, H; Delaire, O, _Lattice dynamics and thermal
    transport in multiferroic CuCrO2_ , Physical Review B, vol 95 no. 5 (2017)
    [10.1103/PhysRevB.95.054306] [abs].
  * Lee, S; Hippalgaonkar, K; Yang, F; Hong, J; Ko, C; Suh, J; Liu, K; Wang,
    K; Urban, JJ; Zhang, X; Dames, C; Hartnoll, SA; Delaire, O; Wu, J,
    _Anomalously low electronic thermal conductivity in metallic vanadium
    dioxide._ , Science (New York, N.Y.), vol 355 no. 6323 (2017), pp. 371-374
    [10.1126/science.aag0410] [abs].
  * Bao, F; Archibald, R; Bansal, D; Delaire, O, _Hierarchical optimization
    for neutron scattering problems_ , Jisuan Wuli/Chinese Journal of
    Computational Physics, vol 315 (2016), pp. 39-39
    [10.1016/j.jcp.2016.03.017] [abs].
  * Luo, C; Wang, Y; Ge, W; Li, J; Viehland, D; Delaire, O; Li, X; Luo, H,
    _Hierarchical domain structure of lead-free piezoelectric (Na1/2
    Bi1/2)TiO3-(K1/2 Bi1/2)TiO3 single crystals_ , Journal of Applied Physics,
    vol 119 no. 17 (2016) [10.1063/1.4948478] [abs].
  * May, AF; Delaire, O; Niedziela, JL; Lara-Curzio, E; Susner, MA; Abernathy,
    DL; Kirkham, M; McGuire, MA, _Structural phase transition and phonon
    instability in Cu12Sb4S13_ , Physical Review B, vol 93 no. 6 (2016)
    [10.1103/PhysRevB.93.064104] [abs].
  * Li, CW; Hong, J; May, AF; Bansal, D; Chi, S; Hong, T; Ehlers, G; Delaire,
    O, _Orbitally driven giant phonon anharmonicity in SnSe_ , Nature Physics,
    vol 11 no. 12 (2015), pp. 1063-1069 [10.1038/nphys3492] [abs].
  * Bansal, D; Li, CW; Said, AH; Abernathy, DL; Yan, J; Delaire, O, _Electron-
    phonon coupling and thermal transport in the thermoelectric compound
    Mo3Sb(7−x)Te(x)_ , Physical Review B, vol 92 no. 21 (2015)
    [10.1103/PhysRevB.92.214301] [abs].
  * Delaire, O; Al-Qasir, II; May, AF; Li, CW; Sales, BC; Niedziela, JL; Ma,
    J; Matsuda, M; Abernathy, DL; Berlijn, T, _Heavy-impurity resonance,
    hybridization, and phonon spectral functions in Fe(1−x)M(x)Si (M=Ir, Os)_
    , Physical Review B, vol 91 no. 9 (2015) [10.1103/PhysRevB.91.094307]
    [abs].
  * Chen, X; Weathers, A; Carrete, J; Mukhopadhyay, S; Delaire, O; Stewart,
    DA; Mingo, N; Girard, SN; Ma, J; Abernathy, DL; Yan, J; Sheshka, R;
    Sellan, DP; Meng, F; Jin, S; Zhou, J; Shi, L, _Twisting phonons in complex
    crystals with quasi-one-dimensional substructures._ , Nature
    Communications, vol 6 (2015) [10.1038/ncomms7723] [abs].
  * Budai, JD; Hong, J; Manley, ME; Specht, ED; Li, CW; Tischler, JZ;
    Abernathy, DL; Said, AH; Leu, BM; Boatner, LA; McQueeney, RJ; Delaire, O,
    _Metallization of vanadium dioxide driven by large phonon entropy._ ,
    Nature, vol 515 no. 7528 (2014), pp. 535-539 [10.1038/nature13865] [abs].
  * Li, CW; Hellman, O; Ma, J; May, AF; Cao, HB; Chen, X; Christianson, AD;
    Ehlers, G; Singh, DJ; Sales, BC; Delaire, O, _Phonon self-energy and
    origin of anomalous neutron scattering spectra in SnTe and PbTe
    thermoelectrics._ , Physical Review Letters, vol 112 no. 17 (2014)
    [10.1103/physrevlett.112.175501] [abs].
  * Manley, ME; Lynn, JW; Abernathy, DL; Specht, ED; Delaire, O; Bishop, AR;
    Sahul, R; Budai, JD, _Phonon localization drives polar nanoregions in a
    relaxor ferroelectric._ , Nature Communications, vol 5 (2014)
    [10.1038/ncomms4683] [abs].
  * Ma, J; Delaire, O; May, AF; Carlton, CE; McGuire, MA; VanBebber, LH;
    Abernathy, DL; Ehlers, G; Hong, T; Huq, A; Tian, W; Keppens, VM; Shao-
    Horn, Y; Sales, BC, _Glass-like phonon scattering from a spontaneous
    nanostructure in AgSbTe2._ , Nature Nanotechnology, vol 8 no. 6 (2013),
    pp. 445-451 [10.1038/nnano.2013.95] [abs].
  * Delaire, O; Stone, MB; Ma, J; Huq, A; Gout, D; Brown, C; Wang, KF; Ren,
    ZF, _Anharmonic phonons and magnons in BiFeO 3_ , Physical Review B, vol
    85 no. 6 (2012) [10.1103/PhysRevB.85.064405] [abs].
  * Delaire, O; Ma, J; Marty, K; May, AF; McGuire, MA; Du, M-H; Singh, DJ;
    Podlesnyak, A; Ehlers, G; Lumsden, MD; Sales, BC, _Giant anharmonic phonon
    scattering in PbTe._ , Nature Materials, vol 10 no. 8 (2011), pp. 614-619
    [10.1038/nmat3035] [abs].
  * Delaire, O; Marty, K; Stone, MB; Kent, PRC; Lucas, MS; Abernathy, DL;
    Mandrus, D; Sales, BC, _Phonon softening and metallization of a narrow-gap
    semiconductor by thermal disorder_ , Proceedings of the National Academy
    of Sciences of the United States of America, vol 108 no. 12 (2011), pp.
    4725-4730 [10.1073/pnas.1014869108] [abs].
  * Delaire, O; Lucas, MS; Dos Santos, AM; Subedi, A; Sefat, AS; McGuire, MA;
    Mauger, L; Muñoz, JA; Tulk, CA; Xiao, Y; Somayazulu, M; Zhao, JY;
    Sturhahn, W; Alp, EE; Singh, DJ; Sales, BC; Mandrus, D; Egami, T,
    _Temperature and pressure dependence of the Fe-specific phonon density of
    states in Ba ( Fe1-x Cox)2As2_ , Physical Review B, vol 81 no. 9 (2010)
    [10.1103/PhysRevB.81.094504] [abs].
  * Christianson, AD; Lumsden, MD; Delaire, O; Stone, MB; Abernathy, DL;
    McGuire, MA; Sefat, AS; Jin, R; Sales, BC; Mandrus, D; Mun, ED; Canfield,
    PC; Lin, JY; Lucas, M; Kresch, M; Keith, JB; Fultz, B; Goremychkin, EA;
    McQueeney, RJ, _Phonon density of states of LaFeAsO(1-x)Fx._ , Physical
    Review Letters, vol 101 no. 15 (2008) [10.1103/physrevlett.101.157004]
    [abs].
  * Delaire, O; Lucas, MS; Muñoz, JA; Kresch, M; Fultz, B, _Adiabatic
    electron-phonon interaction and high-temperature thermodynamics of A15
    compounds._ , Physical Review Letters, vol 101 no. 10 (2008)
    [10.1103/physrevlett.101.105504] [abs].
  * Delaire, O; Fultz, B, _Charge redistribution and phonon entropy of
    vanadium alloys._ , Physical Review Letters, vol 97 no. 24 (2006)
    [10.1103/physrevlett.97.245701] [abs].
  * Yue, AF; Papandrew, AB; Delaire, O; Fultz, B; Chowdhuri, Z; Dimeo, RM;
    Neumann, DA, _Vibrations of micro-eV energies in nanocrystalline
    microstructures._ , Physical Review Letters, vol 93 no. 20 (2004)
    [10.1103/physrevlett.93.205501] [abs].
  * Delaire, O; Swan-Wood, T; Fultz, B, _Negative entropy of mixing for
    vanadium-platinum solutions._ , Physical Review Letters, vol 93 no. 18
    (2004) [10.1103/physrevlett.93.185704] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

