

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Patrick D. Wolf

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

My research is primarily in the area of advanced instrumentation for diagnosis
and treatment of electrophysiological problems. This research covers two
primary organ systems: the heart and the brain.

One thrust of the cardiac-based work is centered on atrial fibrillation and in
particular on very low energy atrial defibrillation strategies. The goal is to
produce a device that can defibrillate the atria with a painless series of
electrical impulses. A second area of interest is the study of the biophysics
of radio frequency ablation of the heart. A third avenue of research in the
cardiac area is the development of new instruments and techniques for tracking
interventional devices within the body without the use of ionizing radiation.
These devices primarily rely on ultrasound technology. There is a strong
collaborative effort in this area with the Duke Ultrasound group in the
Department of Biomedical Engineering. The long term goal of this work is to
develop technology to deliver image-guided therapy to target tissues in the
heart and other organs.

In neuroengineering, we are currently developing a "brainchip" that would
telemeter information recorded directly from neurons in the brain to a remote
device. This IC based technology is being developed for application in neuro-
prosthetic or brain controlled devices. There is a close collaboration on this
project between our lab and the laboratory of Dr. Miguel Nicolelis the
Department of Neurobiology. We are also developing advanced neural recoding
systems to use on unrestrained, untethered animals as they learn to perform
certain tasks.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Rm. 276, Hudson Annex, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5114
  * **Email Address:** patrick.wolf@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Wolf Lab Website

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1992

## Research Interests

Advanced instrumentation for diagnosis and treatment of electrophysiological
problems. This research covers two primary organ systems: the heart and the
brain. In the heart, Dr. Wolf is developing an image guided ablation system
for treatment of arrhythmias. In the brain, he is developing a fully
implantable Brain-Machine interface.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 354L: Introduction to Medical Instrumentation
  * BME 464L: Medical Instrument Design (DR)
  * BME 506: Measurement and Control of Cardiac Electrical Events (GE, EL, IM)

## Representative Publications

  * Kim, Y-J; Wolf, PD, _3-D Ultrasound Imaging Using Helicoid Array
    Transducers._ , Ieee Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and
    Frequency Control, vol 68 no. 3 (2021), pp. 697-706
    [10.1109/tuffc.2020.3022616] [abs].
  * Vejdani-Jahromi, M; Freedman, J; Trahey, GE; Wolf, PD, _Measuring
    Intraventricular Pressure Using Ultrasound Elastography._ , Journal of
    Ultrasound in Medicine, vol 38 no. 5 (2019), pp. 1167-1177
    [10.1002/jum.14795] [abs].
  * Vejdani-Jahromi, M; Freedman, J; Kim, Y-J; Trahey, GE; Wolf, PD,
    _Assessment of Diastolic Function Using Ultrasound Elastography._ ,
    Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology, vol 44 no. 3 (2018), pp. 551-561
    [10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2017.11.011] [abs].
  * Hollender, P; Kuo, L; Chen, V; Eyerly, S; Wolf, P; Trahey, G, _Scanned 3-D
    Intracardiac ARFI and SWEI for Imaging Radio-Frequency Ablation Lesions._
    , Ieee Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control,
    vol 64 no. 7 (2017), pp. 1034-1044 [10.1109/tuffc.2017.2692558] [abs].
  * Vejdani-Jahromi, M; Freedman, J; Nagle, M; Kim, Y-J; Trahey, GE; Wolf, PD,
    _Quantifying Myocardial Contractility Changes Using Ultrasound-Based Shear
    Wave Elastography._ , Journal of the American Society of Echocardiography,
    vol 30 no. 1 (2017), pp. 90-96 [10.1016/j.echo.2016.10.004] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

