

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Richard B. Fair

Lord-Chandran Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Dr. Fair is a Life Fellow of the IEEE and a Fellow of the Electrochemical
Society. He has served as Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on
Electron Devices (1990-1993) and is past Editor-In-Chief of the Proceedings of
the IEEE (1993-2000). He received the IEEE Third Millennium Medal in 2000, and
the 2003 Solid State Science and Technology Award from the Electrochemical
Society. He has published 150 papers in technical journals, contributed
chapters to 10 books, edited eight more books, and given over 115 invited
talks.  
Our research group will continue to be driven by applications for lab-on-a-
chip technology. While funding for microfluidics devices and science is non-
existent, applications in environmental engineering, biosensing, diagnostics,
genomics, etc. continue to appear. Thus, we have created strategic alliances
with faculty in ECE, CEE, chemistry, genomics, biochemistry, microsystems
engineering, and computer science at Duke, DUHS, Harvard and Stanford as part
of our new thrusts into applications-driven research in bio-fluidic systems.
We have funding to glue these critical pieces together. We have also aligned
with Advanced Liquid Logic for the development of a more stable electrowetting
platform on which to develop applications. And we are working on an NSF grant
with Nan Jokerst’s group and Krish’s on an adaptive lab chip to develop on-
chip optical sensing and control. Additionally, we have DARPA funding with
Stanford, Harvard, and ALL in developing a genomic engineering platform for
synthetic biology. Also, we are starting a new NSF grant on airborne particle
sensing with Desert Research Institute.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Lord-Chandran Distinguished Professor of Engineering
  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Affiliate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3519 CIEMAS, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engrg.,
    Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5277
  * **Email Address:**
  * **Websites:**
    * http://www.ee.duke.edu/research/microfluidics/

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1969
  * M.S.E.E. Pennsylvania State University, 1966
  * B.S.E.E. Duke University, 1964

## Research Interests

Microfluidic systems for lab-on-a-chip applications based on electrowetting
technology

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Life Fellow. IEEE. 2009
  * Gordon E. Moore Medal for Outstanding Achievement in Solid State Science
    and Technology. Electrochemical Society. 2003
  * Third Millennium Medal. IEEE. 2000
  * Professor James F. Gibbons Achievement Award. 4th International Conference
    on Advanced Thermal Processing. 1996
  * Fellow. Electrochemical Society. 1994
  * Fellow. Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers. 1990

## Courses Taught

  * ECE 331L: Fundamentals of Microelectronic Circuits
  * ECE 493: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 528: Integrated Circuit Engineering
  * ECE 533: Biochip Engineering
  * ECE 891: Internship

## In the News

  * The 'Citation Classic' That Redefined Microfluidics (Mar 27, 2017 | Pratt
    School of Engineering)
  * Faculty Research Leads to Jobs and Companies (Sep 16, 2014 | Duke Today)

## Representative Publications

  * Bigdeli, Y; Preetam, S; Scott, KC; Zhong, Z; Liang, TC; Tini, Z;
    Chakrabarty, K; Fair, RB, _Enhanced fluorescent detection of nucleosomes
    using functionalized magnetic beads on a digital microfluidic device_ ,
    Progress in Biomedical Optics and Imaging Proceedings of Spie, vol 11955
    (2022) [10.1117/12.2620556] [abs].
  * Bigdeli, Y; Preetam, S; Scott, KC; Zhong, Z; Liang, TC; Chakrabarty, K;
    Fair, RB, _Fluorescent detection of nucleosomes using functionalized
    magnetic beads on a digital microfluidic device_ , Progress in Biomedical
    Optics and Imaging Proceedings of Spie, vol 11637 (2021)
    [10.1117/12.2578339] [abs].
  * Preetam, S; Bigdeli, Y; Fair, RB, _ENHANCED BIOMOLECULAR BINDING TO BEADS
    ON A DIGITAL MICROFLUIDIC DEVICE_ , Microtas 2021 25th International
    Conference on Miniaturized Systems for Chemistry and Life Sciences (2021),
    pp. 959-960 [abs].
  * Huang, S; Connolly, J; Khlystov, A; Fair, RB, _Digital Microfluidics for
    the Detection of Selected Inorganic Ions in Aerosols._ , Sensors (Basel,
    Switzerland), vol 20 no. 5 (2020) [10.3390/s20051281] [abs].
  * Liang, TC; Zhong, Z; Bigdeli, Y; Ho, TY; Chakrabarty, K; Fair, R,
    _Adaptive droplet routing in digital microfluidic biochips using deep
    reinforcement learning_ , 37th International Conference on Machine
    Learning, Icml 2020, vol PartF168147-8 (2020), pp. 6006-6016 [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

