

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Robert Calderbank

Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

Robert Calderbank is Director of the Information Initiative at Duke
University, where he is Professor of Electrical Engineering, Computer Science
and Mathematics. He joined Duke in 2010, completed a 3 year term as Dean of
Natural Sciences in August 2013, and also served as Interim Director of the
Duke Initiative in Innovation and Entrepreneurship in 2012. Before joining
Duke he was Professor of Electrical Engineering and Mathematics at Princeton
University where he also directed the Program in Applied and Computational
Mathematics.

Before joining Princeton University Dr. Calderbank was Vice President for
Research at AT&T. As Vice President for Research he managed AT&T intellectual
property, and he was responsible for licensing revenue. AT&T Labs was the
first of a new type of research lab where masses of data generated by network
services became a giant sandbox in which fundamental discoveries in
information science became a source of commercial advantage

At Duke, Dr. Calderbank works with researchers from the Duke Center for Autism
and Brain Development, developing information technology that is able to
capture a full spectrum of behavior in very young children. By supporting more
consistent and cost-effective early diagnosis, the team is increasing the
opportunity for early interventions that have proven very effective.

At the start of his career at Bell Labs, Dr. Calderbank developed voiceband
modem technology that was widely licensed and incorporated in over a billion
devices. Voiceband means the signals are audible so these modems burped and
squeaked as they connected to the internet. One of these products was the AT&T
COMSPHERE® modem which was the fastest modem in the world in 1994 – at
33.6kb/s!

Together with Peter Shor and colleagues at AT&T Labs Dr. Calderbank developed
the group theoretic framework for quantum error correction. This framework
changed the way physicists view quantum entanglement, and provided the
foundation for fault tolerant quantum computation.

Dr. Calderbank has also developed technology that improves the speed and
reliability of wireless communication by correlating signals across several
transmit antennas. Invented in 1996, this space-time coding technology has
been incorporated in a broad range of 3G, 4G and 5G wireless standards. He
served on the Technical Advisory Board of Flarion Technologies a wireless
infrastructure company founded by Rajiv Laroia and acquired by Qualcomm for
$1B in 2008.

Dr. Calderbank is an IEEE Fellow and an AT&T Fellow, and he was elected to the
National Academy of Engineering in 2005. He received the 2013 IEEE Hamming
Medal for contributions to coding theory and communications and the 2015
Shannon Award.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science
  * Professor of Computer Science
  * Director of the Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke
  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor of Mathematics
  * Associate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 140 Science Drive, 317 Gross Hall, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 613-7874
  * **Email Address:** robert.calderbank@duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. California Institute of Technology, 1980
  * M.S. Oxford University (United Kingdom), 1976
  * B.S. University of Warwick (United Kingdom), 1975

## Research Interests

Error control codes for quantum computing, wireless communication and the
internet of things, coding theory for computer architecture, signal
processing, machine learning

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Elected Member. American Academy of Arts & Sciences. 2022
  * NAI Fellow. National Academy of Inventors. 2014
  * Fellow. American Mathematical Society. 2013
  * Richard W. Hamming Medal. Institute for Electrical and Electronics
    Engineers. 2013
  * AAAS Fellows. American Association for the Advancement of Science, The.
    2012
  * Membership. National Academy of Engineering. 2005
  * Highly Cited Researcher. Thomson Reuters. 2001
  * Fellows. Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers. 1998

## Courses Taught

  * COMPSCI 393: Research Independent Study
  * ECE 483: Introduction to Digital Communication Systems
  * ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * MATH 391: Independent Study
  * MATH 393: Research Independent Study
  * MATH 394: Research Independent Study
  * MATH 501: Introduction to Algebraic Structures I
  * MATH 590-02: Advanced Special Topics in Mathematics

## In the News

  * Four Faculty Elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences (Apr 28, 2022)
  * Duke to Lead Center to Develop U.S. Air Force Wireless Communications
    Protocols (Oct 21, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Duke Launches Center to Bring Computational Thinking to All Students (Oct
    12, 2020)
  * How to Judge an AI Art Competition (Mar 26, 2019 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Information Initiative at Duke Named to Honor Michael and Maureen Rhodes
    (Dec 6, 2018 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Calderbank Reappointed to New Term as Information Initiative Director (Oct
    10, 2018)
  * A MindAnd an EarFor Big Data (Feb 27, 2017 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Duke Receives $9.75 Million for ‘Big Data’ Initiative (Apr 27, 2015)
  * DIW Office Connects Duke Experts to Washington (Mar 6, 2015)
  * Calderbank, Chilkoti Named Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors
    (Dec 16, 2014)
  * Putting Big Data to Work in Autism Diagnosis (Nov 25, 2014)
  * Math Junior Flips for Bit Flips (Aug 11, 2014 | Duke Research Blog)
  * A Toast for Robert Calderbank (Jul 10, 2014)
  * Calderbank Receives Shannon Award (Jul 7, 2014)
  * Duke Faculty Head to DC to Talk to Policymakers About Math and Art (Jun
    18, 2014)
  * Van Gogh and the algorithm: How math can save art (Jun 17, 2014 | TIME)
  * Calderbank Awarded IEEE Medal (Jun 20, 2013)

## Representative Publications

  * Nguyen, DM; Calderbank, R; Deligiannis, N, _Geometric Matrix Completion
    With Deep Conditional Random Fields._ , Ieee Transactions on Neural
    Networks and Learning Systems, vol 31 no. 9 (2020), pp. 3579-3593
    [10.1109/tnnls.2019.2945111] [abs].
  * Beirami, A; Calderbank, R; Christiansen, MM; Duffy, KR; Medard, M, _A
    Characterization of Guesswork on Swiftly Tilting Curves_ , Ieee
    Transactions on Information Theory, vol 65 no. 5 (2019), pp. 2850-2871
    [10.1109/TIT.2018.2879477] [abs].
  * Michelusi, N; Nokleby, M; Mitra, U; Calderbank, R, _Multi-Scale Spectrum
    Sensing in Dense Multi-Cell Cognitive Networks_ , Ieee Transactions on
    Communications, vol 67 no. 4 (2019), pp. 2673-2688
    [10.1109/TCOMM.2018.2886020] [abs].
  * Vahid, A; Calderbank, R, _Throughput region of spatially correlated
    interference packet networks_ , Ieee Transactions on Information Theory,
    vol 65 no. 2 (2019), pp. 1220-1235 [10.1109/TIT.2018.2860041] [abs].
  * Zhu, W; Qiu, Q; Huang, J; Calderbank, R; Sapiro, G; Daubechies, I,
    _LDMNet: Low Dimensional Manifold Regularized Neural Networks_ ,
    Proceedings of the Ieee Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and
    Pattern Recognition (2018), pp. 2743-2751 [10.1109/CVPR.2018.00290] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

