

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Shaundra Daily

Professor of Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Shaundra ("Shani B") Daily is a professor of practice in Electrical and
Computer Engineering & Computer Science at Duke University and Levitan Faculty
Fellow, Special Assistant to the Vice Provosts. Prior to joining Duke, she was
an associate professor with tenure at the University of Florida in the
Department of Computer & Information Science & Engineering. She also served as
an associate professor and interim co-chair in the School of Computing at
Clemson University. Her research focuses on the design, implementation, and
evaluation of technologies, programs, and curricula to support diversity,
equity, and inclusion in STEM fields. Her approach has focused on four key
strategies: 1) Collecting, analyzing, and interpreting data to support
insights on best practices for diversity, equity, and inclusion, 2) Utilizing
technology to support the development of interpersonal skills that will
facilitate collaboration in diverse settings; 3) Developing technologies and
programs geared towards making computing and engineering accessible to diverse
identities, and 4) Mentoring, advising, and participating in outreach inside
and outside of the university

Having garnered over $40M in funding from public and private sources to
support her collaborative research activities, Daily’s work has been featured
in USA Today, Forbes, National Public Radio, and the Chicago Tribune. Daily
earned her B.S. and M.S. in Electrical Engineering from the Florida
Agricultural and Mechanical University – Florida State University College of
Engineering, and an S.M. and Ph.D. from the MIT Media Lab.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer
    Engineering
  * Professor of the Practice of Computer Science
  * Core Faculty in Innovation & Entrepreneurship

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 130 Hudson Hall, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (202) 922-7339
  * **Email Address:** shani.b@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Personal Webpage
    * QuadEx Faculty Fellows | Shani B. Daily

## Education

  * Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2010

## Research Interests

Identity-inclusive computing, Human-centered design & engineering, justice-
centered STEM education

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Educator of the Year. ACHI Magazine. 2022
  * Program of the Year. CoNECD Conference. 2022
  * North Carolina Black STEM Leaders. Governor Roy Cooper. 2022
  * Capers and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and Advising.
    Pratt School of Engineering. 2021
  * Undergraduate Mentor of the Year. Mary Lou William Center for Black
    Culture. 2020
  * Extraordinary Educator Award . Delta Alpha Pi. 2015
  * Technology, Instruction, Cognition and Learning Early Career Research
    Award . American Education Research Association. 2015
  * Epsilon Award - Most Promising Technologist . Black Data Processing
    Association. 2013
  * Emerging Scholar . Diverse Issues in Higher Education . 2013
  * Scholar . Clemson Institute for the Advancement of Healthcare . 2012
  * Fellow. Samsung. 2007
  * Fellow. Stanford University - LIFE Center. 2007
  * Graduate Community Fellow - Women's Initiatives. Massachusetts Institute
    of Technology . 2006
  * Fellow. Delta Airlines. 2003
  * Sean A. Pittman Award for Outstanding Service to the African American
    Community . Florida State University. 2001
  * Member. Tau Beta Pi. 2000
  * Torchbearer. National Society of Black Engineers . 2000
  * Seminole Torchbearer. Florida State University . 1998

## Courses Taught

  * COMPSCI 391: Independent Study
  * COMPSCI 394: Research Independent Study
  * COMPSCI 653: Human-Centered Computing
  * ECE 110L9: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering - Lab
  * ECE 110L: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 653: Human-Centered Computing
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering
  * EGR 101L: Engineering Design and Communication
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * HOUSECS 59: House Course
  * ME 491: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * RACESOC 395T: Bass Connections Race & Society Research Team
  * RACESOC 396T: Bass Connections Race & Society Research Team
  * RACESOC 397T: Bass Connections Race & Society Research Team
  * RACESOC 795T: Bass Connections Race & Society Research Team
  * RACESOC 796T: Bass Connections Race & Society Research Team

## In the News

  * Computer science has a racism problem: these researchers want to fix it
    (Oct 19, 2022 | Nature Magazine)
  * Meet the QuadEx Faculty Fellows (Aug 24, 2022)
  * Shani Daily on Opening Wider Doors to the STEM Fields (Jul 12, 2022 | Duke
    Government Relations)
  * NC Governor Honors Two Duke Faculty as Black Leaders in STEM (Feb 9, 2022)
  * Governor Cooper Honors North Carolina’s Black STEM Leaders During Black
    History Month (Feb 8, 2022 | Governor's Office)
  * How much of tech history involves Black history? (Feb 1, 2022 | ZDNet)
  * Honoring Black History Month in tech companies (Feb 1, 2022 | ZDNet)
  * Daily and Samanez-Larkin to Lead Faculty QuadEx Engagement (Nov 30, 2021)
  * National Science Foundation launches artificial intelligence center at
    Duke (Aug 21, 2021 | Duke Chronicle)
  * Duke Professors Awarded $10M NSF Grant to Increase Diversity in Computing
    (Aug 11, 2021 | Communications of the ACM)
  * The National Science Foundation Awards $10 Million to Duke to Diversify
    STEM (Aug 5, 2021 | Diverse Issues in Higher Education)
  * 'Really about educating educators': New initiatives aim to improve
    diversity in computer science department (May 12, 2021 | Duke Chronicle)
  * Uplifting, Educating and Listening: It’s Not Over (Apr 1, 2021 |
    DukeEngineer)
  * Building a Network to Last (Aug 20, 2020 | DukeEngineer)
  * For Women Student Coders, Program Provides Strength in Numbers (Aug 18,
    2018 | Duke Today)
  * Changing the face of computer science (Nov 21, 2016 | Science Magazine)
  * Students Learn Computer Programming Skills Through Dance (Jun 2, 2016 | 1.
    The Journal: Transforming Education Through Technology)
  * American Graduate Champion: Dr. Shaundra Daily (Aug 21, 2015 | South
    Carolina ETV)
  * Technology: Cool Women Who Code (Girls in Science)  (Aug 11, 2015 | Book
    Chapter)
  * Digital Divas weave STEM into fashion and dance challenges  (Aug 5, 2015 |
    Chicago Tribune)
  * Bridging tech's gender gap with dance (Jan 19, 2015 | USAToday)
  * STEM Education Shall We Dance? (Dec 1, 2014 | ASEE Prism)
  * Computer scientist Shaundra Daily - ScienceLives (Nov 14, 2014 | National
    Science Foundation)
  * Can Girls Dance Their Way Toward Computer Programming Careers? Read more:
    http://nationswell.com/dance-can-increase-girls-stem-
    interest/#ixzz4sW6Gg1xs (Nov 7, 2014 | NationSwell)
  * Dance choreography improves girls' computational skills (Nov 3, 2014 |
    Phys Org)
  * Female Students' Computer Skills Improve With Dance Choreography (Nov 3,
    2014 | Medical Daily)
  * Dance Choreography May Improve Computational Skills (Nov 3, 2014 | Science
    World Report)
  * Danza y programación pueden atraer niñas a carreras informáticas (Nov 3,
    2014 | La Nacion)
  * Morph Than Meets the Eye (Oct 21, 2014 | Clemson Newsstand)
  * 7 Black Innovators and Inventors in STEM Fields Who Blerds Should Know
    (Oct 3, 2014 | Atlanta Blackstar)
  * Clemson University to bring together art and technology at Artisphere 2014
    (May 1, 2014 | Clemson Newsstand)
  * Careers: Shaundra Daily (Oct 9, 2013 | Girl Scouts of the USA)
  * Dr. Shaundra B. Daily Works to Improve Education with Technology (Jan 13,
    2013 | Diverse Issues in Higher Education)
  * NOVA | The Secret Life of Scientists: Shaundra Daily (Mar 2, 2011 | PBS)

## Representative Publications

  * Leonard, AE; Daily, SB; Jörg, S; Babu, SV, _Coding moves: Design and
    research of teaching computational thinking through dance choreography and
    virtual interactions_ , Journal of Research on Technology in Education,
    vol 53 no. 2 (2021), pp. 159-177 [10.1080/15391523.2020.1760754] [abs].
  * Brinkley, J; Posadas, B; Sherman, I; Daily, SB; Gilbert, JE, _An Open Road
    Evaluation of a Self-Driving Vehicle Human–Machine Interface Designed for
    Visually Impaired Users_ , International Journal of Human–Computer
    Interaction, vol 35 no. 11 (2019), pp. 1018-1032
    [10.1080/10447318.2018.1561787] [abs].
  * Daily, S; James, MT; Cherry, D; Porter, JJ; Darnell, SS; Isaac, J; Roy, T,
    _Affective Computing: Historial Foundations, Current Applications, and
    Future Trends_ (2017) [abs].
  * Daily, SB; Leonard, AE; Jörg, S; Babu, S; DSouza, N; Parmar, D; Gundersen,
    K; Isaac, J; Acker, S, _Combating Perceptions of Computer Scientists: A
    Short-term Intervention_ , Proceedings of the 47th Acm Technical Symposium
    on Computing Science Education (2016), pp. 686-686 [abs].
  * Thomas, J; Daily, SB; Streeter, M, _Supporting Students of Color in
    Learning Computer Science_ , Proceedings of the 47th Acm Technical
    Symposium on Computing Science Education (2016), pp. 706-706 [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

