

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Sina Farsiu

Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

I am the director of the Vision and Image Processing (VIP) Laboratory. Along
with my colleagues, we investigate how to improve early diagnostic methods and
find new imaging biomarkers of ocular and neurological diseases in adults
(e.g. age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, Glaucoma,
Alzheimer) and children (e.g. retinopathy or prematurity). We also develop
automatic artificial intelligence machine learning and deep learning
algorithms to detect/segment/quantify anatomical/pathological structures seen
on medical images.

On another front, we study efficient signal processing based methods to
overcome the theoretical and practical limitations that constrain the
achievable resolution of any imaging device. Our approach, which is based on
adaptive extraction and robust fusion of relevant information from the
expensive and sophisticated as well as simple and cheap sensors, has found
wide applications in improving the quality of imaging systems such as
ophthalmic SD-OCT, digital X-ray mammography, electronic and optical
microscopes, and commercial digital camcorders. We are also interested in
pursuing statistical signal processing based projects, including super-
resolution, demosaicing, deblurring, denoising, motion estimation, compressive
sensing/adaptive sampling, and sensor fusion.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering
  * Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
    Engineering
  * Professor of Computer Science
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** CIEMAS 2575, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 684-6642
  * **Websites:**
    * Academic Webpage
    * Google Scholar
    * Vision & Image Processing Lab

## Education

  * University of California - Santa Cruz, 2007
  * University of California - Santa Cruz, 2005
  * Ph.D. University of California - Santa Cruz, 2005
  * M.S. University of Tehran (Iran), 2001
  * B.S. Sharif University of Technology (Iran), 1999

## Research Interests

Focused on medical imaging and machine learning to improve the overall health
and vision outcome of patients with ocular and neurological diseases (e.g.,
age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, Alzheimer, and ALS)
through earlier and personalized therapy.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 544: Digital Image Processing (GE, IM)
  * BME 789: Internship in Biomedical Engineering
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering

## In the News

  * AI Technique Opens Door for Accelerated Progress in Neuroscience Research
    (Mar 1, 2019)
  * A smartphone and new software could help save infants born preterm (Nov
    20, 2018)
  * Handheld Probe Images Photoreceptors in Children (Aug 23, 2018 | Pratt
    School of Engineering)
  * Farsiu Receives Signal Processing Award (Sep 20, 2017 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * New handheld device could allow for easy retina imaging in children (Aug
    10, 2016 | WUNC)
  * At Duke, sibling sleuths try to unlock mummy mystery (Mar 4, 2016 | The
    News & Observer)
  * Eye test could detect dementia (Apr 29, 2015 | The Daily Mail, Australian
    Associated Press)
  * Sina Farsiu: Processing an Avalanche of Images (Aug 27, 2014 | Pratt
    School of Engineering)
  * Duke Labs Produce 2 Intel Talent Search Finalists (Feb 10, 2014 | Duke
    Research Blog)

## Representative Publications

  * Estrada, R; Tomasi, C; Schmidler, SC; Farsiu, S, _Tree Topology
    Estimation._ , Ieee Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine
    Intelligence, vol 37 no. 8 (2015), pp. 1688-1701
    [10.1109/tpami.2014.2382116] [abs].
  * Chiu, SJ; Allingham, MJ; Mettu, PS; Cousins, SW; Izatt, JA; Farsiu, S,
    _Kernel regression based segmentation of optical coherence tomography
    images with diabetic macular edema._ , Biomedical Optics Express, vol 6
    no. 4 (2015), pp. 1172-1194 [10.1364/BOE.6.001172] [abs].
  * Polans, J; McNabb, RP; Izatt, JA; Farsiu, S, _Compressed wavefront
    sensing._ , Opt Lett, vol 39 no. 5 (2014), pp. 1189-1192
    [10.1364/OL.39.001189] [abs].
  * Srinivasan, PP; Heflin, SJ; Izatt, JA; Arshavsky, VY; Farsiu, S,
    _Automatic segmentation of up to ten layer boundaries in SD-OCT images of
    the mouse retina with and without missing layers due to pathology._ ,
    Biomedical Optics Express, vol 5 no. 2 (2014), pp. 348-365
    [10.1364/BOE.5.000348] [abs].
  * Fang, L; Li, S; McNabb, RP; Nie, Q; Kuo, AN; Toth, CA; Izatt, JA; Farsiu,
    S, _Fast acquisition and reconstruction of optical coherence tomography
    images via sparse representation._ , Ieee Trans Med Imaging, vol 32 no. 11
    (2013), pp. 2034-2049 [10.1109/TMI.2013.2271904] [abs].
  * Estrada, R; Tomasi, C; Cabrera, MT; Wallace, DK; Freedman, SF; Farsiu, S,
    _Exploratory Dijkstra forest based automatic vessel segmentation:
    applications in video indirect ophthalmoscopy (VIO)._ , Biomedical Optics
    Express, vol 3 no. 2 (2012), pp. 327-339 [10.1364/BOE.3.000327] [abs].
  * Chiu, SJ; Izatt, JA; O'Connell, RV; Winter, KP; Toth, CA; Farsiu, S,
    _Validated automatic segmentation of AMD pathology including drusen and
    geographic atrophy in SD-OCT images._ , Investigative Opthalmology &
    Visual Science, vol 53 no. 1 (2012), pp. 53-61 [10.1167/iovs.11-7640]
    [abs].
  * Estrada, R; Tomasi, C; Cabrera, MT; Wallace, DK; Freedman, SF; Farsiu, S,
    _Enhanced video indirect ophthalmoscopy (VIO) via robust mosaicing._ ,
    Biomedical Optics Express, vol 2 no. 10 (2011), pp. 2871-2887
    [10.1364/BOE.2.002871] [abs].
  * Robinson, MD; Toth, CA; Lo, JY; Farsiu, S, _Efﬁcient fourier-wavelet
    super-resolution._ , Ieee Trans Image Process, vol 19 no. 10 (2010), pp.
    2669-2681 [10.1109/TIP.2010.2050107] [abs].
  * Chiu, SJ; Li, XT; Nicholas, P; Toth, CA; Izatt, JA; Farsiu, S, _Automatic
    segmentation of seven retinal layers in SDOCT images congruent with expert
    manual segmentation._ , Optics Express, vol 18 no. 18 (2010), pp.
    19413-19428 [10.1364/OE.18.019413] [abs].
  * Farsiu, S; Christofferson, J; Eriksson, B; Milanfar, P; Friedlander, B;
    Shakouri, A; Nowak, R, _Statistical detection and imaging of objects
    hidden in turbid media using ballistic photons._ , Applied Optics, vol 46
    no. 23 (2007), pp. 5805-5822 [10.1364/ao.46.005805] [abs].
  * Farsiu, S; Elad, M; Milanfar, P, _Multiframe demosaicing and super-
    resolution of color images._ , Ieee Transactions on Image Processing : a
    Publication of the Ieee Signal Processing Society, vol 15 no. 1 (2006),
    pp. 141-159 [10.1109/tip.2005.860336] [abs].
  * Farsiu, S; Robinson, MD; Elad, M; Milanfar, P, _Fast and robust multiframe
    super resolution._ , Ieee Transactions on Image Processing : a Publication
    of the Ieee Signal Processing Society, vol 13 no. 10 (2004), pp. 1327-1344
    [10.1109/tip.2004.834669] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

