

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Stefan Zauscher

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

My research lies at the intersection of surface and colloid science, polymer
materials engineering, and biointerface science, with four central areas of
focus:

1\. Fabrication, manipulation and characterization of stimulus-responsive
biomolecular and bio-inspired polymeric nanostructures on surfaces;  
2\. Nanotechnology of soft-wet materials and hybrid biological/non-biological
microdevices;  
3\. Receptor-ligand interactions relevant to the diagnostics of infectious
diseases;  
4\. Friction of soft-wet materials, specifically the role of glycoproteins on
friction in diarthroidal joints.

These four broad lines of inquiry deal with fundamental behaviors of soft-wet
materials on surfaces and interfaces. The design and fabrication of these
interfaces using "smart" polymeric and biomolecular nanostructures, and the
characterization of the resulting structures, are critically important for the
development of biomolecular sensors and devices and for bioinspired materials.
Key approaches and tools I use in my research are: bottom-up organization on
the molecular scale, through self-assembly, in-situ polymerization, and
manipulation of intermolecular interactions; topdown fabrication, through
scanning probe nanolithography; stimulus-responsive polymers; molecular
recognition; and new approaches to sensing and manipulation. This research
supports Duke's Pratt School of Engineering strategic initiative to expand
research in soft-wet Materials Science.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
    Science
  * Director of the Duke Materials Initiative
  * Associate Chair in Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
    Materials Science
  * Bass Fellow
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3385 Fciemas Building, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5360
  * **Email Address:** zauscher@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar
    * Zauscher Lab

## Education

  * Ph.D. University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1999
  * M.S. Oregon State University, 1992

## Research Interests

Nano-mechanical and nano-tribological characterization (elasticity, friction,
adhesion) of materials including organic thin films; self-assembled
monolayers, polymeric gels, and cellulosics; Fabrication of polymeric
nanostructures by scanning probe lithography; Colloidal probe and atomic force
microscopy; Single molecule force spectroscopy applied to ligand-receptor
binding; Biomolecular nano- and micro-sensors

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellow. American Vacuum Society (AVS). 2020
  * Dean of the Graduate School Award for Inclusive Excellence in Graduate
    Education. Duke University. 2016
  * Chair. 5th Gordon Research Conference in Biointerface Science. 2014
  * Marion and Capers McDonald Award for Excellence in Teaching and Research.
    Duke University, Pratt School of Engineering. 2012
  * ICCES Young Investigator Award. International Center for Computational
    Engineering Sciences. 2008
  * Bronze Award for Scientific Achievement. 26th Army Science Conference,
    U.S. Army Research. 2008
  * Young Investigator Award. American Academy of Nanomedicine. 2005
  * Early CAREER Award. National Science Foundation. 2003
  * Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program. National Science
    Foundation. 2003
  * Faculty Enhancement Award. Oak Ridge Associated Universities. 2001

## Courses Taught

  * BME 529: Properties and Characterization of Polymeric Materials
  * ME 221L: Structure and Properties of Solids
  * ME 391: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 514: Properties and Characterization of Polymeric Materials
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 758S: Curricular Practical Training
  * MSEG 591: Independent Study

## In the News

  * Measuring the Lightest Touch Your Body Responds To (Feb 28, 2023 | Pratt
    School of Engineering)
  * QATCH (Feb 1, 2021 | Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship)
  * Pushing Science and Engineering to Create New Soft Materials (Sep 7, 2017
    | Duke Engineering)
  * Oddball Enzyme Provides Easy Path to Synthetic Biomaterials (May 16, 2017
    | Duke Engineering)
  * Energy Initiative Provides First Round of Research Seed Funding (Apr 16,
    2014)
  * Energy Initiative Provides First Round of Research Seed Funding (Apr 16,
    2014 | Duke Today)

## Representative Publications

  * Young, MN; Sindoni, MJ; Lewis, AH; Zauscher, S; Grandl, J, _The energetics
    of rapid cellular mechanotransduction._ , Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A, vol
    120 no. 8 (2023) [10.1073/pnas.2215747120] [abs].
  * Simon, M; Prause, A; Zauscher, S; Gradzielski, M, _Self-Assembled Single-
    Stranded DNA Nano-Networks in Solution and at Surfaces._ ,
    Biomacromolecules, vol 23 no. 3 (2022), pp. 1242-1250
    [10.1021/acs.biomac.1c01493] [abs].
  * Gilpin, A; Zeng, Y; Hoque, J; Ryu, JH; Yang, Y; Zauscher, S; Eward, W;
    Varghese, S, _Self-Healing of Hyaluronic Acid to Improve In Vivo Retention
    and Function._ , Adv Healthc Mater, vol 10 no. 23 (2021)
    [10.1002/adhm.202100777] [abs].
  * Yang, Y; Lu, Q; Huang, C; Qian, H; Zhang, Y; Deshpande, S; Arya, G; Ke, Y;
    Zauscher, S, _Programmable Site‐Specific Functionalization of DNA Origami
    with Polynucleotide Brushes_ , Angewandte Chemie, vol 133 no. 43 (2021),
    pp. 23429-23435 [10.1002/ange.202107829] [abs].
  * Yang, Y; Lu, Q; Huang, C-M; Qian, H; Zhang, Y; Deshpande, S; Arya, G; Ke,
    Y; Zauscher, S, _Programmable Site-Specific Functionalization of DNA
    Origami with Polynucleotide Brushes._ , Angewandte Chemie International
    Edition, vol 60 no. 43 (2021), pp. 23241-23247 [10.1002/anie.202107829]
    [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

