

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Tatiana Segura

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Tatiana Segura is a Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Neurology, and
Dermatology at Duke University. She received her B.S. degree in Bioengineering
from the University of California, Berkeley (UC Berkeley) and her doctorate in
Chemical Engineering from Northwestern University. She began her career in
Biomaterials research during her doctoral work working with Prof. Lonnie Shea.
She designed hydrogels for local non-viral gene delivery, a topic that she
still works on today. She continued her Biomaterials training during her
postdoctoral work with Jeffrey Hubbell. There she worked on the design of
hydrogels and self-assembled polysulfides for gene delivery. She began her
independent career at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) in the
Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering reaching the title of
Professor. At UCLA she participated actively in service culminating with her
election as department Vice Chair and running the Graduate Program. At Duke
she has continued to be heavily involved in service at the department, school,
and university level. In only 5 years, she has Chaired 6 committees, and
participated in at least 6 more, is the direct mentor to two young assistant
professors, is the Co-director of the Center for Biotechnology and Tissue
Engineering and serves as MPI of the T32 Biotechnology Training grant. Notably
she is currently the Chair of the BME department Diversity Equity and
Inclusion Committee.

Prof. Segura’s research is centered on biomaterials and in engineering
biomaterial-soft tissue interactions to promote repair and regeneration.
Together with her lab members, she designs new biomaterial interventions that
can promote brain plasticity after stroke, promote scarless healing in skin
wounds, induce tolerance of transplanted skin, and promote constructive immune
responses after biomaterial implantation. Currently, her lab has 12 graduate
students, 4 postdoctoral scholars, 2 master students, 1 plastic surgery
resident, 16 undergraduate students, one high school student, and one research
associate.

Professor Segura has received numerous awards and distinctions during her
career, including being named a Senior Member of the National Academy of
Inventors, receiving the Acta Biomaterialia Silver Medal, a CAREER Award from
the National Science Foundation, a Outstanding Young Investigator Award from
the American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy, and a National Scientist
Development Grant from the American Heart Association. She was also named a
Fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineers (AIMBE).
Professor Segura has published over 100 peer-reviewed papers and reviews and
has over 10,000 citations. Her laboratory has been continuously funded since
2008 with several grants from the National Institutes of Health (NIH).

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor in Neurology
  * Professor in Dermatology
  * Affiliate of the Duke Regeneration Center

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 534 Research Drive, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-2901
  * **Email Address:** tatiana.segura@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * @seguralab Twitter feed
    * Segura Lab website
    * Tatiana Segura on LinkedIn

## Education

  * Ph.D. Northwestern University, 2004
  * B.S. University of California - Berkeley, 1999

## Research Interests

The design of biomaterials to promote endogenous repair and reducing
inflammation through the design of the geometry of the material, and
delivering genes, proteins and drugs.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellow. American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineers. 2017
  * National Scientist Development Grant. American Heart Association. 2009
  * Outstanding Young Investigator Award. American Society of Gene and Cell
    Therapy. 2009
  * CAREER Award. National Science Foundation. 2008

## Courses Taught

  * BME 394: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 771: Bioconjugation in drug biomaterials and drug delivery systems
  * BME 790: Advanced Topics for Graduate Students in Biomedical Engineering
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * NEUROSCI 493: Research Independent Study 1
  * NEUROSCI 494: Research Independent Study 2
  * NEUROSCI 495: Research Independent Study 3

## In the News

  * A Gel That Regrows the Brain (Mar 2, 2022)
  * Antimicrobial Coating for Orthopedic Implants Prevents Dangerous
    Infections (Sep 27, 2021 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Duke Celebrates Women and Girls in Science Day (Feb 10, 2021)
  * Wound-Healing Biomaterials Activate Immune System for Stronger Skin (Nov
    11, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * No Ordinary Gel: New Tools to Help the Body Repair Brain and Muscle Tissue
    (Nov 5, 2019 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * New Biomaterial Helps Regrow Brain Tissue After Stroke in Mice (May 21,
    2018 | Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Liu, Y; Suarez-Arnedo, A; Shetty, S; Wu, Y; Schneider, M; Collier, JH;
    Segura, T, _A Balance between Pro-Inflammatory and Pro-Reparative
    Macrophages is Observed in Regenerative D-MAPS._ , Advanced Science
    (Weinheim, Baden Wurttemberg, Germany) (2023) [10.1002/advs.202204882]
    [abs].
  * Anderson, AR; Segura, T, _Controlling Particle Fraction in Microporous
    Annealed Particle Scaffolds for 3D Cell Culture._ , Journal of Visualized
    Experiments : Jove no. 188 (2022) [10.3791/64554] [abs].
  * Anderson, AR; Nicklow, E; Segura, T, _Particle fraction is a bioactive cue
    in granular scaffolds._ , Acta Biomaterialia, vol 150 (2022), pp. 111-127
    [10.1016/j.actbio.2022.07.051] [abs].
  * Wilson, KL; Pérez, SCL; Naffaa, MM; Kelly, SH; Segura, T, _Stoichiometric
    Post-Modification of Hydrogel Microparticles Dictates Neural Stem Cell
    Fate in Microporous Annealed Particle Scaffolds._ , Advanced Materials
    (Deerfield Beach, Fla.), vol 34 no. 33 (2022) [10.1002/adma.202201921]
    [abs].
  * Sideris, E; Kioulaphides, S; Wilson, K; Yu, A; Chen, J; Carmichael, ST;
    Segura, T, _Particle hydrogels decrease cerebral atrophy and attenuate
    astrocyte and microglia/macrophage reactivity after stroke._ , Advanced
    Therapeutics, vol 5 no. 8 (2022) [10.1002/adtp.202200048] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

