

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Tomasz Hueckel

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Tomasz Hueckel received his master's degree in civil engineering from the
University of Technology in Gdansk, Poland, in 1968, his Ph.D. in applied
mechanics from the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw, in 1974, and the
D.Sc. in physical sciences from the University of Grenoble, France, in 1985.
He started his research career at the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw,
then taught at the University of Rome and the University of Technology in
Milan before joining ISMES, a research institute in Bergamo, Italy, where he
was responsible for research on geomechanical aspects of nuclear waste
disposal in clays, a subject in which he continues to be strongly involved. He
came to Duke in 1987.

Dr. Hueckel's research interest is in theoretical soil mechanics, rock
mechanics, and environmental geomechanics, as well as in theory of plasticity.
His current projects deal with thermo-plasticity and chemo-plasticity of
clays, and in general in mechanics of materials composed of chemically
reacting solids and liquids. He is interested in fundamental aspects of soil
drying and cracking, and processes of soil aging and healing. The above
subjects involve mathematical modeling and model driven laboratory
experiments. He also is interested in basic aspects of theory of plasticity,
such as stability and localization. His research is applied to hydraulic geo-
barriers affected either by chemically hazardous liquids or nuclear waste
heat, to prediction of petroleum production induced compaction and subsidence,
as well as desiccation damage.

Dr. Hueckel is a co-founder and co-Editor-in Chief (2015) of ** _Geomechanics
for Energy and the Environment,_** an Elsevier journal. He has published also
in International Journal of Solids and Structures, International Journal of
Engineering Science, Pure and Applied Geophysics, Surveys in Geophysics,
Engineering Geology, Engineering Fracture Mechanics, International Journal of
Rock Mechanics and Mining Engineering, International Journal of Numerical and
Analytical Methods in Geomechanics, Computers and Geotechnics, International
Journal of Soils and Foundations, Journal de Mecanique, Canadian Geotechnical
Journal, Meccanica, Ingenieur- Archiv, and the ASCE Journal of Geotechnical
Engineering. He has also contributed to numerous books on the state of the
art. Dr. Hueckel is heavily involved in international research cooperation,
collaborating and co-authoring with Belgian, Italian, French, Polish, Spanish
and Swiss researchers. He is or was a member of the editorial board of the
Journal of Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics, the Archive of
Applied Mechanics and of the International Journal of Mechanics of Cohesive
and Frictional Materials, ASCE Journals of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental
Engineering and ASCE International Journal of Geomechanics, Italian
Geotechnical Journal and Studia Geotechnica et Mechanica (Polish).

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 164 Hudson Eng Ctr, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5205
  * **Email Address:** hueckel@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * http://www.duke.edu/~hueckel/

## Education

  * D.Sc. Grenoble Institute of Technology (France), 1985
  * Ph.D. Polish Academy of Sciences, 1974

## Research Interests

Mechanics of materials, theoretical soil mechanics, rock mechanics, theory of
plasticity, multi-physics processes in geomechanics, nuclear waste disposal,
energy and environmental geomechanics.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellowship of Excellence for Visiting Professors and Researchers.
    Government of Catalonia, Spain. 2004
  * Fellowship. Fonds National de la Recherche Scientifique, Belgium. 2003
  * Fellowship. Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. 2002
  * Senior Resident Fellowship. Ministry of Research, Republic of France. 2000
  * Member. Chi Epsilon Engineering Honor Society. 1989
  * Award of the Secretary General. Polish Academy of Sciences. 1980
  * Fellow. Italian National Council of Research. 1977
  * Fellow. Italian National Council of Research. 1975
  * First Prize, Most Interesting Paper in Mechanics. Polish Association for
    Theoretical and Applied Mechanics. 1972
  * Scholarship (2 Years). Institute of Fundamental Technological Research,
    Polish Academy of Sciences. 1970

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 621: Plasticity
  * CEE 642: Environmental Geomechanics

## In the News

  * Tomasz Hueckel: A Pioneer in Environmental and Energy Geomechanics (Sep
    14, 2015)

## Representative Publications

  * Chen, R; Lindqwister, W; Hueckel, T; Veveakis, M, _An Experimental Study
    on Silt Desiccation Cracking with Different Basal Constraints and Various
    Humidity_ , Springer Series in Geomechanics and Geoengineering (2023), pp.
    144-154 [10.1007/978-3-031-22213-9_15] [abs].
  * Hueckel, T; Mielniczuk, B; Guével, A; Veveakis, M, _Capillary Water in 2-D
    Drying—Cracking Sub-Grain Scale Soil Models: Dynamics and Instabilities of
    Haines Jumps_ , Water Resources Research, vol 58 no. 11 (2022)
    [10.1029/2022WR033246] [abs].
  * Mielniczuk, B; Hueckel, T, _Capillary Water in 2-D Drying-Cracking Soil
    Sub-Grain Models: Morphology and Kinematics of Evaporation and Haines
    Jumps_ , Water Resources Research, vol 58 no. 9 (2022)
    [10.1029/2022WR031938] [abs].
  * Hueckel, T; Laloui, L, _Geomechanics for energy and the environment_ ,
    Geomechanics for Energy and the Environment, vol 30 (2022)
    [10.1016/j.gete.2022.100355] [abs].
  * Guével, A; Mielniczuk, B; Veveakis, M; Hueckel, T, _Life Expectancy of
    Evaporating Capillary Bridges Predicted by Tertiary Creep Modeling_ ,
    Frontiers in Mechanical Engineering, vol 8 (2022)
    [10.3389/fmech.2022.838501] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

