

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Tuan Vo-Dinh

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Dr. Tuan Vo-Dinh is R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Chemistry, and Director of The
Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics.

Dr. Vo-Dinh’s research activities and interests involve biophotonics,
nanophotonics, plasmonics, laser-excited luminescence spectroscopy, room
temperature phosphorimetry, synchronous luminescence spectroscopy, and
surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy for multi-modality bioimaging, and
theranostics (diagnostics and therapy) of diseases such as cancer and
infectious diseases.

We have pioneered the development of a new generation of gene biosensing
probes using surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) detection with
“Molecular Sentinels” and Plasmonic Coupling Interference (PCI) molecular
probes for multiplex and label-free detection of nucleic acid biomarkers (DNA,
mRNA, microRNA) in early detection of a wide variety of diseases.

In genomic and precision medicine, nucleic acid-based molecular diagnosis is
of paramount importance with many advantages such as high specificity, high
sensitivity, serotyping capability, and mutation detection. Using SERS-based
plasmonic nanobiosensors and nanochips, we are developing novel nucleic acid
detection methods that can be integrated into lab-on-a-chip systems for point-
of-care diagnosis (e.g., breast, GI cancer) and global health applications
(e.g., detection of malaria and dengue).

In bioimaging, we are developing a novel multifunctional gold nanostar (GNS)
probe for use in multi-modality bioimaging in pre-operative scans with PET,
MRI and CT, intraoperative margin delineation with optical imaging, SERS and
two-photon luminescence (TPL). The GNS can be used also for cancer treatment
with plasmonics enhanced photothermal therapy (PTT), thus providing an
excellent platform for seamless diagnostics and therapy (i.e., theranostics).
Preclinical studies have shown its great potential for cancer diagnostics and
therapeutics for future clinical translation.

For fundamental studies, various nanobiosensors are being developed for
monitoring intracellular parameters (e.g., pH) and biomolecular processes
(e.g., apoptosis, caspases), opening the possibility for fundamental molecular
biological research as well as biomedical applications (e.g., drug discovery)
at the single cell level in a systems biology approach. For point of care
diagnostics, nanoprobes and nanochips with highly multiplex SERS detection and
imaging use artificial intelligence and machine learning for data analysis.

Our research activities in immunotherapy involve unique plasmonics-active gold
“nanostars.” These star-shaped nanobodies made of gold work like “lightning
rods,” concentrating the electromagnetic energy at their tips and allowing
them to capture photon energy more efficiently when irradiated by laser light.
Teaming with medical collaborators, we have developed a novel cancer treatment
modality, called synergistic immuno photothermal nanotherapy (SYMPHONY), which
combines immune-checkpoint inhibition and gold nanostar–mediated photothermal
immunotherapy that can unleash the immunotherapeutic efficacy of checkpoint
inhibitors. This combination treatment can eradicate the primary tumors as
well as distant “untreated” tumors, and induce immunologic memory like a
“anti-cancer vaccine” effect in murine model.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
    Engineering
  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor in the Department of Chemistry
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 2589 CIEMAS, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5598
  * **Email Address:** tuan.vodinh@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Curriculum Vitae
    * Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics
    * Google Scholar
    * Vo-Dinh Lab

## Education

  * Ph.D. Swiss Federal Institute of Technology-ETH Zurich (Switzerland), 1975
  * B.S. Swiss Federal Institute of Technology-EPFL Lausanne (Switzerland),
    1971

## Research Interests

Biophotonics, laser-excited luminescence spectroscopy, room temperature
phosphorimetry, synchronous luminescence spectroscopy, surface-enhanced Raman
spectroscopy, field environmental instrumentation, fiberoptics sensors,
nanosensors, biosensors and biochips for the protection of the environment and
the improvement of human health. More at vodinh.pratt.duke.edu

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * President’s Award. SPIE. 2022
  * Sir George Stokes Award. Royal Society of Chemistry. 2019
  * Elected Fellow. National Academy of Inventors. 2017
  * Fellow (NAI). National Academy of Inventors. 2017
  * Award on Spectrochemical Analysis. American Chemical Society, Division of
    Analytical Chemistry. 2011
  * Fellows. American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering. 2004
  * Director’s Award for Outstanding Accomplishments in Science and
    Technology. UT-Battelle. 2003
  * Distinguished Inventors Award. Battelle Memorial Institute. 2003
  * Distinguished Scientist of the Year Award. Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
    2003
  * Fellow. International Society for Optics and Photonics. 2000
  * RD-100 Award for Most Technologically Significant Advance in R&D
    (Multifunctional Biochip). R&D Magazine. 1999
  * Lockheed Martin Commercialization Award. Lockheed Martin Corporation. 1998
  * AMSE Award, American Museum of Science and Technology (BiOptics
    Technology). American Museum of Science and Technology. 1997
  * BER-50 Award for Exceptional Service for a Health Citizenry. US Department
    of Energy. 1997
  * Inventor of the Year Award. Tennessee Inventors Association. 1996
  * RD-100 Award for Most Technologically Significant Advance in R&D (SERS
    Gene Probe). R&D Magazine. 1996
  * Award for Excellence in Technology Transfer (SERODS Technology). Federal
    Laboratory Consortium. 1995
  * RD-100 Award for Most Technologically Significant Product of the Year (PCB
    Spot Test). R&D Magazine. 1994
  * Inventors International Hall of Fame Award. Inventors Clubs of America.
    1992
  * RD-100 Award for Most Technologically Significant Product of the Year
    (SERODS Technology). R&D Magazine. 1992
  * Scientist of the Year. Oak Ridge National Laboratory. 1992
  * Thomas Jefferson Award. Martin Marietta Corporation. 1992
  * Languedoc-Rousillon Medal. University of Perpignan (France). 1989
  * Gold Medal Spectroscopy Award. Society for Applied Spectroscopy. 1988
  * RD-100 Award for Most Significant Technological Advance in R&D
    (Fluoroimmunosensor). R&D Magazine. 1987
  * Award for Excellence in Technology Transfer. Federal Laboratory
    Consortium. 1986
  * RD 100 Award for Most Significant Technological Advance in Research & Dev
    (PNA Dosimeter). R&D Magazine. 1981

## Courses Taught

  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 555: Advances in Photonics (GE, IM)
  * BME 567: Biosensors (GE, IM, MC)
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * BME 792: Continuation of Graduate Independent Study
  * CHEM 393: Research Independent Study
  * CHEM 394: Research Independent Study
  * CHEM 601: Biosensors
  * CHEM 630: Advances in Photonics (GE, IM)
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering

## In the News

  * Nanorattles Shake Up New Possibilities for Disease Detection (Sep 20, 2022
    | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Silver-Plated Gold Nanostars Detect Early Cancer Biomarkers (Jul 22, 2020
    | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Duke Scientists Receive Royal Society of Chemistry Awards (May 7, 2019)
  * Tuan Vo-Dinh to be Part of International Day of Light in Paris (Apr 5,
    2018)
  * Three Engineers Named to National Academy of Inventors (Dec 13, 2017)
  * Shedding light on cancer (Sep 12, 2017 | Duke Clinical & Translational
    Science Institute)
  * Energy Initiative Provides First Round of Research Seed Funding (Apr 16,
    2014)
  * Duke-designed nanoprobes may detect early disease markers (Sep 9, 2013 |
    News & Observer)
  * Light and Nanoprobes Detect Early Signs of Infection  (Jun 20, 2013 |
    Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Dukes, PV; Strobbia, P; Ngo, HT; Odion, RA; Rocke, D; Lee, WT; Vo-Dinh, T,
    _Plasmonic assay for amplification-free cancer biomarkers detection in
    clinical tissue samples._ , Anal Chim Acta, vol 1139 (2020), pp. 111-118
    [10.1016/j.aca.2020.09.003] [abs].
  * Fales, AM; Strobbia, P; Vo-Dinh, T; Ilev, IK; Pfefer, TJ, _3D-printed
    phantoms for characterizing SERS nanoparticle detectability in turbid
    media._ , The Analyst, vol 145 no. 18 (2020), pp. 6045-6053
    [10.1039/d0an01295e] [abs].
  * Sung, AD; Yen, RC; Jiao, Y; Bernanke, A; Lewis, DA; Miller, SE; Li, Z;
    Ross, JR; Artica, A; Piryani, S; Zhou, D; Liu, Y; Vo-Dinh, T; Hoffman, M;
    Ortel, TL; Chao, NJ; Chen, BJ, _Fibrinogen-Coated Albumin Nanospheres
    Prevent Thrombocytopenia-Related Bleeding._ , Radiat Res, vol 194 no. 2
    (2020), pp. 162-172 [10.1667/RADE-20-00016] [abs].

## Selected Activities

  * Editor-in-Chief, NanoBiotechnology,
  * Associate Editor, Journal of Nanophotonics,
  * Associate Editor, Plasmonics (2006-present),
  * Associate Editor, Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety (2003-present),
  * Topical Editor, Polycyclic Aromatic Compounds (1988 - present),

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

