

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Yiran Chen

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Yiran Chen received B.S (1998) and M.S. (2001) from Tsinghua University and
Ph.D. (2005) from Purdue University. After five years in the industry, he
joined the University of Pittsburgh in 2010 as Assistant Professor and was
promoted to Associate Professor with tenure in 2014, holding Bicentennial
Alumni Faculty Fellow. He is now the Professor of the Department of Electrical
and Computer Engineering at Duke University and serving as the director of the
NSF AI Institute for Edge Computing Leveraging the Next-generation Networks
(Athena), the NSF Industry-University Cooperative Research Center (IUCRC) for
Alternative Sustainable and Intelligent Computing (ASIC), and the co-director
of Duke Center for Computational Evolutionary Intelligence (DCEI). His group
focuses on the research of new memory and storage systems, machine learning
and neuromorphic computing, and mobile computing systems. Dr. Chen has
published 1 book and about 500 technical publications and has been granted 96
US patents. He has served as the associate editor of more than a dozen
international academic periodicals and served on the technical and
organization committees of more than 60 international conferences. He is now
serving as the Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Circuits and Systems Magazine. He
received eight best paper awards, one best poster award, and sixteen best
paper nominations from reputable international conferences and workshops such
as MICRO, KDD, DATE, SEC, etc. He received numerous awards for his technical
contributions and professional services such as the IEEE Computer Society
Edward J. McCluskey Technical Achievement Award, ACM SIGDA Service Award, etc.
He is a Fellow of the ACM and IEEE and now serves as the chair of ACM SIGDA.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor of Computer Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 405 Wilkison Building, 534 Research Dr., Durham, NC
    27705
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-1372
  * **Email Address:** yiran.chen@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke Center of Computational Evolutionary Intelligence (CEI)
    * Google Scholar Page
    * NSF AI Institute for Edge Computing Leveraging Next Generation Networks (Athena)
    * NSF IUCRC for Alternative Sustainable and Intelligent Computing (ASIC) 

## Education

  * Ph.D. Purdue University, 2005

## Research Interests

Emerging memory and storage technologies

Embedded systems, CPS, edge computing, and mobile applications

Neuromorphic computing, deep learning and system security

Low power circuit and system

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Edward J. McCluskey Technical Achievement Award. Institute of Electrical
    and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). 2022
  * ACM Fellow. ACM. 2020
  * IEEE Fellow. IEEE. 2018

## Courses Taught

  * COMPSCI 393: Research Independent Study
  * ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 661: Computer Engineering Machine Learning and Deep Neural Nets
  * ECE 891: Internship
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering

## In the News

  * Three Duke Faculty Elected AAAS Fellows (Jan 31, 2023 | Duke Today)
  * NSF Launches Artificial Intelligence Research Center at Duke (Jul 29,
    2021)
  * Yiran Chen: Integrating Tomorrows Technology into Todays Devices (Jan 3,
    2017)

## Representative Publications

  * Hanson, E; Li, S; Qian, X; Li, HH; Chen, Y, _DyNNamic: Dynamically
    Reshaping, High Data-Reuse Accelerator for Compact DNNs_ , Ieee
    Transactions on Computers, vol 72 no. 3 (2023), pp. 880-892
    [10.1109/TC.2022.3184272] [abs].
  * Chang, CC; Pan, J; Xie, Z; Hu, J; Chen, Y, _Rethink before Releasing Your
    Model: ML Model Extraction Attack in EDA_ , Proceedings of the Asia and
    South Pacific Design Automation Conference, Asp Dac (2023), pp. 252-257
    [10.1145/3566097.3567896] [abs].
  * Yang, X; Li, S; Zheng, Q; Chen, Y, _Improving the Robustness and
    Efficiency of PIM-Based Architecture by SW/HW Co-Design_ , Proceedings of
    the Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conference, Asp Dac (2023),
    pp. 618-623 [10.1145/3566097.3568358] [abs].
  * Chang, CC; Pan, J; Xie, Z; Li, Y; Lin, Y; Hu, J; Chen, Y, _Fully Automated
    Machine Learning Model Development for Analog Placement Quality
    Prediction_ , Proceedings of the Asia and South Pacific Design Automation
    Conference, Asp Dac (2023), pp. 58-63 [10.1145/3566097.3567881] [abs].
  * Wu, C; Yang, X; Chen, Y; Li, M, _Photonic Bayesian Neural Network Using
    Programmed Optical Noises_ , Ieee Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum
    Electronics, vol 29 no. 2 (2023) [10.1109/JSTQE.2022.3217819] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

