

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Zbigniew J. Kabala

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Born and raised behind the Iron Curtain, Dr. Zbigniew J. Kabala is a
naturalized United States citizen who cherishes the freedoms and opportunities
granted by this country. He earned his master's degree in civil engineering in
1980 from Poznan Polytechnic in Poznan, Poland, and master's degree in
mathematics in 1982 from A. Mickiewicz University in Poznan. At Princeton
University, he earned another master's and Ph.D. degrees in civil engineering
and operations research in 1985 and 1988, respectively. Next, Dr. Kabala held
one-year postdoctoral appointments at the MIT in the Ralph M. Parsons
Laboratory and at the UC-Berkeley in the Department of Soil Science. He was
then appointed an assistant professor of hydrology in the Department of Soils
and Environmental Sciences at the UC-Riverside. He joined the Duke faculty in
the summer of 1994.

Dr. Kabala teaches currently the following courses: Fluid Mechanics, Advanced
Fluid Mechanics, and Groundwater Hydrology. He enjoys his interactions with
students in and outside of class. He has served as a faculty in residence
(FIR) in Southgate, Giles, and West House dormitories for a number of years.
Dr. Kabala also works with Pioneer Academics to mentor high school students
from around the world and recruit some of them to Duke. He is an avid member
of Toastmasters International and a sponsor of the PRATTically Speaking
Toastmasters club in PRATT School of Engineering, where he hones his public
speaking skills and helps students and postdocs do the same.

Dr. Kabala follows politics with great passion and occasionally writes about
it. In his free time, he enjoys racquet and water sports, hiking, reading, and
listening to jazz.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** CIEMAS 2467, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5479
  * **Email Address:** zbigniew.kabala@duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. Princeton University, 1988
  * M.S. Princeton University, 1982
  * M.S. Poznan Polytechnic (Poland), 1980

## Research Interests

Dr. Kabala's principal research interests cover stochastic and deterministic
theory of fluid flow and contaminant transport in saturated and unsaturated
heterogeneous porous media, theory of related measurements, field and
laboratory studies in subsurface hydrology, stochastic fields and processes,
numerical and analytical methods and sensitivity analysis. His current
research focuses on developing new measurement techniques for characterization
of porous media, recovering contaminant release histories from current plume
observations, and stochastic modeling of water and solute transport in
saturated and unsaturated heterogeneous formations.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Earl I. Brown II Outstanding Civil Engineering Faculty Award. Department
    of Civil & Environmental Engineering. 2005
  * Top 8 Most Downloaded Article. Advances in Water Resources. 2001

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 301L: Fluid Mechanics
  * CEE 494: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 683: Groundwater Hydrology and Contaminant Transport
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering

## Representative Publications

  * Wang, AXG; Kabala, ZJ, _Body Morphology and Drag in Swimming: CFD Analysis
    of the Effects of Differences in Male and Female Body Types_ , Fluids, vol
    7 no. 10 (2022) [10.3390/fluids7100332] [abs].
  * Kabala, ZJ, _Comment on “Tu et al., An Analytical Solution of Groundwater
    Flow in a Confined Aquifer With a Single Well Circulation System, Water
    Resources Research, First Published: 12 June 2020.”_ , Water Resources
    Research, vol 57 no. 4 (2021) [10.1029/2020WR029021] [abs].
  * Kahler, DM; Kabala, ZJ, _Erratum: Acceleration of groundwater remediation
    by rapidly pulsed pumping: Laboratory column tests (Journal of
    Environmental Engineering (United States) DOI:
    10.1061/(ASCE)EE.1943-7870.0001479)_ , Journal of Environmental
    Engineering (United States), vol 145 no. 3 (2019)
    [10.1061/(ASCE)EE.1943-7870.0001540] [abs].
  * Kahler, DM; Kabala, ZJ, _Acceleration of groundwater remediation by deep
    sweeps and vortex ejections induced by rapidly pulsed pumping_ , Water
    Resources Research, vol 52 no. 5 (2016), pp. 3930-3940
    [10.1002/2015WR017157] [abs].
  * Krug, CT; Kabala, Z, _Vadose zone transport of nitrate in the sierra
    pelona groundwater basin, Agua Dulce, California_ , Proceedings of World
    Environmental and Water Resources Congress 2009 World Environmental and
    Water Resources Congress 2009: Great Rivers, vol 342 (2009), pp. 1814-1823
    [10.1061/41036(342)181] [abs].

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

