

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

# Pratt Profile: Corey Oses

  * PhD candidate, Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science (Expected
    Graduation: Spring 2020)
  * Studying computational materials science with Stefano Curtarolo. Planning
    to research calculated magnetic material properties.

**Where are you from?**

I’m originally from Bloomfield, New Jersey, in the northern part of the state
about 20 minutes from New York City.

**What was your undergrad degree and where did you get it?**

I studied applied and engineering physics at Cornell University in Ithaca, New
York. While at Cornell, I had the opportunity to work for two summers in Joel
Brock’s research group and learn about x-ray diffraction techniques. ****

**Why did you choose Duke?**

When I visited, I was struck by how beautiful the Duke campus is. And every
one was so accommodating. Dr. Zauscher took me to lunch and talked to me for a
while. I visited other schools and they were very much about their name and
the ranking. It wasn’t that way at Duke.

I realized this was where I enjoyed being and was happy. I feel like this is
the right place to be. I’m very happy to be here.

**What do you like to do outside the lab?**

I really enjoy salsa dancing. Coming into college I didn’t really have an
identity associated with being a Hispanic. I understood Spanish well but I
didn’t speak it very much. So I took Spanish classes. And I didn’t know how to
dance, so I took classes and I fell in love with dancing.

When you hang out with the dance group, the goal is to enjoy the culture. That
was a good way to meet people of the same culture, and speak Spanish and
dance. That’s something I plan to pursue here and see how the culture is with
people who identify themselves as Hispanic.

**What organizations are you involved with?**

At Cornell, I was president of the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers.
I met with the SHPE advisor at Duke and I would like to get involved. It would
be great if we could engage students to work on fellowship opportunities here.
Growing the community would be my goal with the organization.

**What’s ahead for you?**

I would like to learn how to be a good researcher. I’m striving for
independence in terms of research—to be able to identify where I want to go,
what I’m interested in, and learn more about the field. Identity and
independence are what I’m striving for in the next few years. My dream is to
make a real impact with my PhD project that can project me into a strong
career in either academy or industry. I love the field and my projects, and I
hope to continue contributing in any capacity that I can.

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

