

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

# Pratt Profile: Karah Kelly

  * PhD Student, Civil & Environmental Engineering
  * Advisor: Henry Gavin

**Why did you choose Duke?**

I ran across Duke at one of the National Society of Black Engineering
conferences that I went to. I got in contact with a student here and she gave
me really great advice. When I visited Duke all of the graduate students
seemed to be really good friends, and that made my decision a lot easier. A
few girls I stayed in touch with here told me that my advisor, Dr. Gavin, was
a great advisor to have. Between all that, I just decided on Duke.

**What does your research entail?**

So far with my research we’re looking at base isolation systems for
earthquakes. So basically, if the ground shakes, the building will sit on top
of this platform and that will hopefully that will help reduce the
acceleration displacement of each floor.

**What’s it been like working with your advisor?**

Working with Dr. Gavin has been great. He’s always available to help. He’s so
patient with me. He’s just been so helpful. He helps me with classes he
doesn’t even teach. He’s just been amazing.

**What do you wish you’d known about graduate school before applying?**

The one thing I wish I had known was to ask more questions to the current
students, because they’re the ones who are doing what I’m doing now. When I
was applying to graduate schools, I didn’t really use those resources as much
as I wish I would have. I visited a couple of other schools, and after the
fact I realized that the current graduate students knew exactly what I would
be doing and that I didn’t talk to them enough.

I also wish that I had applied to more places. I guess I underestimated myself
a lot more than I should have. I mean I like it here and I’m glad, but it took
a lot for me to even apply here to begin with because I didn’t think I’d get
in here to begin with. And so I wish I would have had that confidence.

**How have you liked your time at Duke so far?**

Duke’s a great school. I’ve had so much fun here. And I’ve realized that a lot
of the graduate students are good friends, and I know when I visited other
places, a lot of the graduate students seemed not as happy. They just seemed
more stressed out. And coming here has been great. I’ve met a lot of friends
in my program, and even at the orientation for just graduate students, I met
people in other programs. There’s a lot to do, and it’s just a lot of fun
here. You take school seriously, and that’s the most important thing, but
there are a lot of events for you to get out and to meet people and to enjoy
your time here as well.

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

