

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

# Pratt Profile: Korine Ohiri

  * PhD Candidate, Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
  * Advisors: Gabriel Lopez and Benjamin Yellen

What sort of research are you working on?

My PhD topic is about developing next-generation bioanalytical assays. I take
a blood sample and try to isolate molecules or cells of interest in bulk, like
circulating tumor cells, stem cells, or indicators of some sort of disease
like HIV or tuberculosis. And we’re developing a magnetic template that can
take the cells and store them one-by-one on specific spots so that we can do
long-term drug studies.

What’s been the most challenging part of your studies?

I would say the most challenging part of my studies is probably common to most
PhDs, where it’s just troubleshooting through unexpected hurdles or taking
longer to troubleshoot than initially expected. It’s just adjusting and
adapting to obstacles that may come along the way, and trying to find the gaps
in my knowledge and fill them so I can answer these questions. It’s finding
the right people to talk to and collaborate with so that I can answer the
right questions.

What is it like working with your advisor?

I now officially have two advisors. I came into Duke initially working with
Gabriel Lopez, and I’m also working with Benjamin Yellen. They both have dual
appointments in the MEMS and BME departments, so it’s very relative to my
project. And I like them both a lot. They bring very different skills to the
table, which has helped me learn a larger variety of skills than I expected to
learn. I did mechanical engineering in undergrad, but now I’m working with
cells, developing things in the clean room, and working with magnetics. So
it’s ended up being a very interesting combination.

Tell me about the rest of the people you’re working with.

My colleagues are great. Our lab is very interdisciplinary. We have a lot of
people from various backgrounds. We have chemists, chemical engineers,
biomedical engineers, mechanical engineers, and materials engineers. It’s been
interesting learning from them, but more than that it’s been interesting just
getting to know them and hanging out with them. We’ve had lab potlucks, we’ve
gone out to celebrate people defending their theses, and a lot of people got
married last year so we went to each other’s weddings.

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

