

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

# Pratt Profile: Terrance White

  * MS student, Biomedical Engineering (graduated: 2014)
  * Now working as a contract research associate, Cameron Bass and William
    Reichert were his research mentors at Duke

**Tell me a little bit about yourself and where you’re from.**

My name is Terrance White and I graduated in December 2014 with a master’s
degree in biomedical engineering. I did my undergraduate work at Morehouse
College, where I majored in physics with a minor in mathematics. I came to
Duke in the fall of 2013 right after I graduated.

**What made you choose to come to Duke?**

I applied to a lot of PhD programs all over the country, including Duke. Then,
in my final semester of college, I tore my ACL.

Funnily enough, the orthopedic surgeon who repaired it was a Duke alumnus
named Dr. Thomas Branch, who took an interest in me and has helped mentor me
from that point on. Less than a week later, I heard back from Duke that their
PhD program was full, but that I could get a full ride in their biomedical
engineering master of science program, which was ranked third in the country.
It was a no-brainer.

Also, I’m actually from Durham. I was born here and moved to California when I
was 13, but a lot of my family still lives here and my brother Desmond Scott
played football for Duke. I saw this opportunity and thought maybe it’s time
to come back and see what life is like here. And I’m so glad I made that
decision.

**How was the transition from Morehouse to Duke?**

The transition going from Morehouse to Duke was difficult for me. The
academics were on different levels. I’m not saying that Morehouse didn’t
adequately prepare me, but when I came to Duke in graduate studies, it was
just a whole different game.

But I got a lot of help from people who showed me how to adjust. When I was
able to do that, I skyrocketed in everything that I did. Looking back, I say
that Morehouse gave me the drive and determination to be able to take
advantage of the opportunities at Duke, and that Duke opened up my ticket to
life.

What did you find most challenging when you entered grad school? When I first
got to Duke, one of the hardest courses I took was tissue engineering. I just
could not get it. But Dr. Branch kept preaching into my head that I needed to
learn how to use my resources to navigate campus. So I got help from my
research mentors Dr. Cameron Bass and Dr. Monty Reichert, and when I got back
from Christmas break I just locked myself in the library. I was determined to
understand the material and overcome the trials and tribulations I had in my
first semester. With that mentality, I was able to graduate early with over a
3.0 and a contract position as a research associate at United Therapeutics.
It’s funny that tissue engineering gave me so much trouble my first semester,
and a year and half later, tissue engineering is what I’m doing.

**What advice would you give to graduate students coming to Duke?**

I would tell anybody that if you come to a roadblock, don’t give up because
that roadblock may be what you need to open your eyes to different
possibilities. That’s what I believe Duke did for me. It revealed a whole
other world that Morehouse couldn’t show me. There’s so much opportunity
within this campus. There are no doors that are shut. They may be shut
temporarily, but keep knocking and they will truly open.

I would also say not to be impulsive with your actions, and to carefully come
up with a plan to really attack Duke. When you do, you will be amazed at the
opportunities that will come. And explore Duke. Explore the people and explore
the faculty members, because there are some phenomenal people here that you
would never know about unless you try to tap into it. Explore every single
resource and opportunity. Don’t just go to class and then go home.

**What sorts of opportunities did you find when you explored the campus?**

I worked for Duke Engineers for International Development (DEID) under David
Schaad. I was a site coordinator for six Duke undergraduates who went to El
Salvador, where we built a water tank and a filtration system for the local
community. That was an interesting experience.

That’s one of the things I kind of love about engineering and Pratt. Even
though I was in biomedical engineering, I was able to dip into different types
of engineering practices and different atmospheres. I was even going to
interview for a construction company that had come to Duke Connect based off
of my El Salvador trip because they saw that I had civil engineering and
management experience under my belt.

I was also a part an outreach program geared toward minorities in the sciences
called the Bouchet Society. I helped create and implement a plan to recruit
from historically black institutions to get more minority students into the
graduate programs here at Duke. There has been a stigma that minorities cannot
succeed in the biomedical sciences and, as a result, there are very few
minorities pursuing the field. I want to be the example that we can strive,
and lift others down a similar path as I climb.

**What’s next for you?**

I’m currently trying to turn my contract job at United Therapeutics into a
permanent position in tissue engineering. Depending on how things go, there is
a possibility of return to Duke to get my PhD in tissue engineering, but I’m
still trying to get a little more work experience before I make that decision.
Hopefully I’ll have some options.

That’s another thing I love about Duke. The alumni really look after you. It’s
almost as if it’s a fraternity here. If you went to Duke, you’re blessed with
a network for life. Y’all love fellow Dukies, and that’s a blessing to have
people that will continue to look after you and continue to uplift you because
you share some commonality.

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

