

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

# Pratt Profile: Tiffany Wilson

  * PhD student, Civil & Environmental Engineering
  * Studying hydrology and water resources with John Albertson

**Where are you from?**

Raritan, New Jersey.

**What was your undergrad degree and where did you get it?**

My bachelor’s degree is in Civil and Environmental Engineering from Princeton
University.

**Why did you choose Duke?**

Among the schools I was considering, I ultimately chose Duke because the
research opportunity here best fit my interests. I wanted to be able to do
both field work and modeling work in my area of hydrology and water resources,
and my research here allows me to do that. I also really like the fact that
Duke accepts students directly into the Ph.D. program instead of requiring
that you enter as a Master’s student. It was a source of confidence; you
really feel like the expectation is that you’ll be successful. Duke’s friendly
environment and graduate students who were happy with their experiences
attracted me as well.

**Describe the community here at Pratt, the university, and Durham.**

Pratt is an open, relaxed and welcoming environment. This is a great place to
do research since everyone from fellow students to faculty and staff is
supportive when you need help. The university itself has more grad students
than undergraduates, which is unusual, but it’s great for graduate students
because we have a noticeable presence on campus. There are all kinds of events
and organizations that bring people from the broader Duke community together.
I’m a member of GPSC and The Duke University Bouchet Society, both of which
allow me to interact with people outside of engineering. I also really enjoy
living in Durham. I’ve never felt bored in my four years here, and seeing the
revitalization of the city is a great experience. Between all of the new
restaurants and fun cultural activities downtown, there’s never a dull moment.
Durham also has a fairly low cost of living, which means that our graduate
student stipends go far enough to pay for more than just living expenses.

**What do you like to do in your spare time?**

I am a GPSC executive board member, and my role is planning and supporting
non-academic events for the entire Duke graduate and professional student
community. Duke Basketball plays a big role in campus life, and I’m a member
of the committee that plans events for graduate students relating to
basketball. Our main event is the annual Campout, where students spend thirty-
six hours camping out in tents, RVs, and U-Hauls to get season tickets for the
men’s basketball games. Other than event planning, I spend my time playing IM
sports, especially softball and flag football, and I enjoy watching football
and basketball with friends.

**Tell us something about yourself that otherwise we wouldn’t know or guess.**

I enjoy baking, woodworking and sewing. Basically, I love anything where I get
to work with my hands to create something usable or edible.

**What’s ahead for you after graduation?**

I haven’t decided what I’d like to do after graduation, but I know I want to
continue to do research in some capacity. Academia, industry and government
labs all have their own appeal, but I’m taking comfort in the fact that having
a Ph.D. will help me in whatever career I choose.

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

