

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

# Pratt Profile: Ugonna Ohiri

  * PhD Candidate, Electrical & Computer Engineering
  * Advisors: Nan Jokerst and Chris Dwyer

**How did you get into engineering?**

I don’t have the cliché story of being interested in taking apart and fixing
computers at home from a young age. I mostly came to the field because I knew
I was really good at math and had a strength in physics, and I wanted to find
a field where I could use these skills I had learned in high school and
college. And quite honestly, I knew that engineering can be very lucrative in
the end.

**How did you get to Duke?**

I went to the University of Maryland – Baltimore County, which is a small
school in Catonsville, Maryland. I was in a Meyerhoff Scholarship program for
all five years, which is dedicated to underrepresented minorities and
encourages them to pursue higher education. Throughout the program, I was
required to get a summer internship, and because we had those summer
internships at different locations, I was able to work at Duke one summer.

**What are you involved with on campus?**

I’m currently president of the Engineering Graduate Student Council, and I
would love to be elected again next year. I’m also involved in the Bouchet
Society and the Black Graduate Professional Association. And I’m a recruiter
for the National Society of Black Engineers, where we go to regional and
national conferences to recruit students to intern or to go into graduate
school here at Duke.

**What do you hope to do after graduation?**

Most likely I’ll work in industry, but that decision will be location
dependent. I want to work for a top company in circuit design, but if that
doesn’t happen to work out, then I’m also very interested in going into
academia.

**What advice would you have for potential graduate students?**

I think I was more prepared to apply for graduate school by spending an extra
year in undergraduate school, which helped me figure out what specific field I
wanted to go into and also helped me get a graduate fellowship from the
National Science Foundation. I felt like I was one of the students who was
more ready, thanks to the preparation from the Meyerhoff Program and my summer
research experiences.

I would say to be open. What I mean is to expose yourself to different things
that you thought you probably would never try. This place is just so unique
because you have eight other graduate schools to engage with. So I encourage
you to go and reach out to the law school, the medical school, the business
school, the Nicholas School – they’re all really cool people. I think one
thing that has helped me set myself apart from a lot of other graduate
students is just getting myself involved in other graduate and professional
schools. Getting out there and meeting new people and trying new things.

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

