

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# Forward with FinTech: Duke’s Newest Engineering Master’s Program

March 1, 2020 | By Philip Liu

With an increasing number of Pratt graduates entering the financial industry,
the time is ripe for the new Master of Engineering in Financial Technology—or
FinTech—program

What is financial technology, or "FinTech"?

FinTech shepherds the creation and facilitation of technological solutions to
financial market challenges. It is, in short, the intersection of engineering,
computer science, business and finance.

"FinTech is revolutionizing the ways we bank, travel and buy things. The
potential for students is almost endless, but so is the demand for these
skills," said Jimmie Lenz, the academic director of Duke's new Master of
Engineering in Financial Technology program. The master's in FinTech program
came to fruition after more than a year of discussion. With an increasing
number of Pratt graduates entering the financial industry, it has become
especially important that they are given the proper instruction and context to
apply their skills, Lenz explained.

The program features a spectacular array of over 20 Duke faculty members,
ranging from experts in economics to engineering to entrepreneurship. With the
faculty having decades of combined industry experience, Lenz says, "Students
will have a chance to interact with the vast majority of professors that are
involved in this program. All the courses will be very 'hands-on' and project-
based. This is not just theory but practical application of these skills."
Classes will teach and incorporate the newest innovations in the FinTech
scene, such as in the course taught by Peter Balnaves, adjunct associate
professor of engineering, in which robo-advisors provide digital financial
advice based on mathematical rules and algorithms.

Over the span of one-and-a-half to two years, the FinTech curriculum will
consist of business courses, technology electives, financial technology
classes and a concluding capstone project. Students following the technology
track will learn to develop FinTech products and services using tools such as
machine learning, blockchain and quantitative financial analysis. Students in
the management track will prepare to lead FinTech teams and projects through
coursework in areas such as product management and customer-driven innovation.

A key component of the program will be an internship that students will
complete during their second summer. These internships will come from a
variety of areas, including large financial firms, large FinTech companies and
early-stage FinTech startups, closely mirroring the fields where students will
work after graduation. Lenz also believes a percentage of graduates will start
their own companies, pioneering the development of cutting-edge FinTech
products.

The first class of FinTech master's students will arrive in summer 2020.
Originally anticipating about 15 students, Lenz has described an "overwhelming
number of students who are applying and interested," hinting at a likely
increase in class size in following years. A large demand exists for people
with the FinTech skillset, and the number of students will continue to rise
with it.

Incoming students will form a diverse class from around the world, integrating
people who have already spent time in the workforce with recent undergraduates
applying as a part of Duke's 4+1: Bachelor's + Master's" program. Students are
also expected to come from a mix of educational backgrounds, some with
technical knowledge but little experience in finance, and some with exposure
to finance and business but little involvement with engineering or computer
science. Regardless of prior experience, students will develop in-demand
technical skills, understand key technological advances, gain industry-
specific business knowledge and benefit from personalized career services.

As noted by Emma Rasiel, Duke Financial Economics teaching director, the
majority of financial technology programs in the United States are run by
business schools. Duke will be among the first of its kind with a FinTech
degree program based in an engineering school, administering an ever-changing
curriculum to reflect real-world trends each semester. Because of this,
students will not only develop the business skills needed for industry, but
they will also gain the technical expertise necessary to thoroughly understand
the technologies facilitating everyday financial transactions.

Lenz envisions the most exciting aspect of the program to be the ability to
invent new products that have a significant global impact, helping Duke become
a leader in FinTech innovation. Banks, firms and other companies have already
brainstormed projects for classes and selected courses where they will work
directly with students. "This future will be built by technologically savvy
professionals with the kind of knowledge base students can gain in our new
FinTech master's program," affirmed Ravi Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of
Engineering at Duke University.

**Philip Liu is a sophomore double majoring in mechanical engineering and
economics.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

