

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# Engineering 101: A Low-Cost Solution to Gastroschisis

March 1, 2020 | By Caroline Salzman

Two teams of first-year engineers combine forces to find a solution for
infants suffering from gastroschisis in low-resource settings

Last year, the Pratt School of Engineering began offering a new engineering
course for first-year engineering students called Engineering 101. The course
is built to expose first-year engineering students to the engineering design
process and to give them hands-on design experience.

As part of the course, the university brings in "clients" from the community,
such as the Duke Forest or Duke Health, among many other groups. These clients
pitch their real-world engineering design problems to the students. The
students are then divided into teams of five based on their interest in each
project.

Throughout the semester, students learn about the engineering design process,
which includes a design analysis stage followed by a solution stage. The key
steps in the design and analysis stage are clarifying the team assignment,
understanding the problem and context, and defining design criteria. In the
solution stage, several solutions are generated, and a structured method is
used to determine the idea that most closely meets the target design criteria.
Lastly, an iterative prototyping process helps teams test the physical
solution against the design criteria until a final prototype is constructed.

Most of the projects conclude at the end of the semester with a final
prototype and a final presentation. However, some students choose to extend
the project as an independent study for a half-credit course in the following
semester. Some projects even go beyond that one additional semester.

In a recent fall semester, one client presented a project that involved
designing a lowcost silo for gastroschisis that could be completely
constructed with materials available in Uganda. Gastroschisis is a birth
defect of the abdominal wall that results in a hole that allows the baby's
intestines—and sometimes other organs—to make their way outside of the body.

The condition is commonly treated with a silo—a long plastic pouch that
protects the intestine and other organs. After being attached to the baby's
belly, the other end of the silo is hung above the baby, allowing gravity to
slowly help the intestine return inside the abdomen.

However, a silo is unavailable to countries in sub-Saharan Africa, including
Uganda, due to numerous factors like its high price. Therefore, the most
sustainable solution would be to create a similar product to the existing silo
made from local materials.

Students were so interested in this project that two teams were created to
work on it. The teams brought in students and faculty from several fields,
including biomedical, electrical & computer, and mechanical engineering;
pediatric surgeons from Duke and Makerere University in Uganda also joined in
the collaboration.

Both teams worked on the project separately for the first semester of the
class, and each constructed a final prototype. For the next semester, a few
members from each team formed a combined team and worked on the project as an
independent study.

The independent study semester was split into three sections. At the beginning
of a new section, the team would construct a "to do" list of things they hoped
to accomplish within the section. The first thing the new team did was combine
the two prototypes into one final prototype. Throughout the rest of the
semester, the team performed testing on this new prototype. Some of the tests
included tensile strength testing, water tightness testing and durability
testing.

Once they had results, the team submitted abstracts, one to the 2019 Rice 360
Global Health Design Competition and one to the American College of Surgeons'
Clinical Congress in San Francisco. The team presented their research at the
Rice competition alongside another team of first-year Engineering 101 students
and a team of senior design students. At the end of the competition, the
gastroschisis team was awarded Honorable Mention for Finalist.

The team continued to develop the project after the Rice competition. Over the
summer, they wrote a paper summarizing their work, including the prototyping
and testing they had done and the joint work they had done with biomedical
engineering students from Makerere University and surgeons from Mulago
National Hospital in Uganda.

During the 2019-2020 school year, the team is continuing work on the project
outside of an independent study. In October, they presented their research at
the American College of Surgeons' Clinical Congress in San Francisco. The team
was in the Global Surgery and Humanitarian Outreach session of the conference
and gave an eight-minute presentation that sparked much interest.

This spring, the team plans to conduct pre-clinical studies on an animal
model. The ultimate goal for the team is to conduct a clinical trial with
colleagues in Uganda to determine if the prototype is an effective solution in
treating gastroschisis.

**Caroline Salzman is a sophomore studying biomedical engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

