

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# Infinite Opportunities: Pratt Research Fellows

March 1, 2020 | By Ria Thimmaiahgari

The Pratt Research Fellows program offers juniors the opportunity to pursue
valuable research experience for three semesters and a summer

One of the many things that makes Duke Engineering special is the immense
availability of opportunities for undergraduate research. With the ability to
work directly under distinguished professors, gain hands-on experience through
on-site projects and even design their own experiments, students at Duke are
constantly redefining the undergraduate research experience.

For any Pratt students looking to get more deeply involved with research, the
Pratt Research Fellows program is a great opportunity. As a Pratt Fellow,
students receive the opportunity to work with engineering faculty members on
an intensive research project for a period of three semesters, including a
summer research experience. This allows students to truly immerse themselves
in their field of study and gain a better perspective of what engineering
research entails.

Carmen Rawls, assistant dean for advising and outreach at Duke Engineering,
has been a key facilitator of this research program. She said, "Undergraduate
research experiences, like the one provided by the Pratt Fellows program, are
very valuable to students who are considering applying to graduate school.
They complete their undergraduate education with a better understanding of the
research environment as well as the expectations and the responsibilities of a
graduate student. They also gain exposure to more topics within their fields
of interest."

Tiff Wei, a senior majoring in civil engineering and current Pratt Fellow,
believes the program has been instrumental in equipping them with the skills
necessary for higher-level research. They are currently working on remote
sensing research near the Upper Zambezi River Basin, located in South Africa.
Their work involves analyzing satellite data to evaluate the long-term
prospects of agriculture and uncertainty of climate projections in the region.

Talking about their biggest takeaways from the program, Wei said, "My work
within my research group has helped me see the importance and relevance of my
coursework as it applies to environmental research. I've learned to hold
myself accountable for my work, to communicate proactively, to conduct
research independently and to document my progress in detail."

Another important aspect of the program is the opportunity it provides for
collaboration. Eric Wahlstedt, a BME senior and current Pratt Fellow,
emphasizes that working with a team was integral to his learning process. "It
is incredibly important to have a strong team to help you troubleshoot
problems and assist you with overcoming the challenges that you face," said
Wahlstedt. "I have a great lab team that I work with and I am always able to
get help from them or ask them questions whenever I need."

Eric is currently designing a micro-camera that can capture neural activity at
higher resolutions. Speaking about his time as a Pratt Fellow, Eric said,
"Even making mistakes in the process, and having to redo the experiment or
design, was a learning experience. It allowed me to grow as an engineer."

Along with preparing students for their future endeavors in research, the
Pratt Fellows program also enables students to truly identify and pursue
subjects they are passionate about.

"It is most important for a Pratt Research Fellows Program applicant to
demonstrate interest in conducting research, and to appreciate the joy of
learning. Research projects provide opportunities to continue one's education
through a quest of finding solutions to unanswered questions. This requires
determination, perseverance and patience which are fuelled by the satisfaction
of advancing in a research topic," says Rawls.

Students interested in applying may visit the Pratt Fellows website to find
out more about projects that align with their own research interests, as well
as the faculty involved with each project. Applications are open to all Pratt
students in their junior year.

So, if you are still looking for the perfect research opportunity, you might
not have to look much further. The Pratt Fellows program, with its variety of
project topics, could be your stepping stone into the vast world of research.

**Ria Thimmaiahgari is a sophomore majoring in biomedical engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

