

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# First-Year Students Learn to Thrive

March 1, 2020 | By Talya Jeter

The new zero-credit course 'Thrive' arms first-year students with tools to
seamlessly transition into college, understand one another and realize
resilience as a daily practice

Thrive (EGR 79S) is a zero-credit, pilot engineering course designed to
prepare first-year students for the challenges of collegiate life and life in
general. Modeled after the Clark Scholars pre-orientation program, Thrive
encourages engineering students to learn about both rigorous academic material
and themselves while here at Duke. Thrive is designed for a small group of 10
students who meet once a week to engage in dialogue ranging in topics from
daily routines to the meaning of success and purpose of life.

Thrive was born from the vision and collaboration of several Duke and Pratt
School of Engineering faculty, including David Pittman, senior director for
student engagement at Duke, Bill Walker, Mattson Family Director of
Entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering, and Ravi Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of
the Pratt School of Engineering. These astute leaders realized the demand for
a program to provide engineering students with the skills to develop
mindfulness and stress management in their lives. Through Thrive, students are
armed with tools to seamlessly transition into college, understand one another
and realize resilience as a daily practice.

Pittman divided the course curriculum into three sections: knowledge of one's
self, stress management and exploring one's purpose. During the first portion,
students complete in-depth personality tests like the DISC (Dominance,
Influence, Steadiness and Compliance) test and 'get-to-know-you' quizzes that
are then shared with the class. These activities foster group discussions,
allowing students to learn about group dynamics like individual strengths and
weaknesses and each person's unique outlook on life.

The second section begins about six weeks into the semester after the first
round of exams—a great time to talk about stress. During this section, Thrive
students are introduced to the many supportive resources on campus through
visits to the Academic Resource Center (ARC) and Student Wellness Center. At
the Wellness Center, Thrive students are able to experience a private tour of
the programs, including "Moments of Mindfulness," drum therapy and group
meditation with Justin Sharpe, associate director of DuWell.

Though Thrive engages students with these beneficial resources, one of its
challenges in popularity is that it is a zero-credit course. To some students,
it seems like another activity that they would need to allocate their time to.
However, many believe the benefit far outweighs the cost.

"I wanted to create a classroom environment where students show up ready to
learn, and without having to prepare anything in advance. The primary focus
was on creating meaningful connections between the students and with their
instructor. Thrive students opted into this wanting the class to be a value
added to [their] experience, rather than adding additional stress to their
already busy schedules," Pittman said. "The experiential learning exercises
alleviated any out class preparation and served as an incentive for students
to stay engaged and complete a zero-credit class."

The final portion of Thrive focuses on one's self, but in a new light. Here,
students think about their future selves—who they want to be as Duke students
and in their lives afterwards. The core of this section centers around
students' values, how those values are important and how they can help guide
decision-making and interest-finding.

Through these discussions, the Thrive course fosters a tight-knit group of
first-year students who can bond over the challenges they face during their
first semester of college. What's more important is that students are able to
garner close relationships with their faculty instructors who serve as
mentors. Walker details Thrive's importance in helping students gain
perspective as he recalls his own college transition as a first-generation
Duke student from a low-income family.

"I want students to know that they're not the only one finding the transition
difficult. That they're not the only one finding it academically and
emotionally challenging," said Walker. "Not only are their student peers
facing these challenges, but faculty and staff members have gone through the
same challenges. I think that realization helps to frame the struggles that
students are having. It's not the end of the world— these are common
problems."

Jennifer Ganley, Thrive course instructor and director of undergraduate
student affairs at Pratt, gives a glimpse of what instructing the course is
like as she teaches an insightful group of four students. "What I like about
Thrive is that it's really studentdriven," she said. "I come in with an idea
of a topic and what we're going to talk about, but where that conversation
takes us is really led by who's in the room at that time."

For the final course activity, Thrive instructors lead their students up the
Duke Chapel tower climb. Tanya Fritz, program coordinator and Thrive
instructor, metaphorically connects the tower climb to the completion of first
semester.

"You're climbing up 239 steps in a dark, winding spiral staircase that
seemingly goes on forever," Fritz said. "You're experiencing fatigue and
pressed with doubt of whether you're going to make it out, but then you
finally see the light at the end of the tunnel. At the top is a clear blue sky
where you see all of Duke's beautiful campus and can appreciate what you've
been able to achieve here."

Thrive ends with a formal dinner for Thrive instructors and participants,
along with guest Dean Ravi Bellamkonda. With the implementation of Thrive,
Dean Bellamkonda emphasizes his interest in the well-rounded development of
engineering students and their individual growth. It is a motivational closing
ceremony that touches on the completion of the first semester and fortifies
the benefit of this multi-faceted approach to learning in engineering.

"At Duke Engineering, we are in the midst of an ambitious reimagining of
engineering education and experience," said Bellamkonda. "Ambitious not only
in reimagining how great engineers come to be through design thinking,
computing, research and entrepreneurship, but also reimagining how to be
intentional about our student's success and well-being holistically. Thrive is
our attempt at exploring meaning, success and resilience for our students, and
this experience will inform future reimagining of our advising and residential
life experiences. It is truly a special time to be at Duke Engineering."

After its pilot year, Thrive is well on its way to becoming a focal point of
Pratt students' lives, enabling them to thrive at Duke and beyond.

**Talya Jeter is a freshman majoring in biomedical engineering and current
Thrive participant.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

