

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Industry Relations
  * Leadership
  * News
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Certificate
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Apply

__

# AI Foundations for Product Innovation Graduate Certificate

A 4-course online program in AI and Machine Learning designed for working
professionals  

Those who have knowledge of AI and machine learning have an advantage. Earn
this Duke standalone, credit-bearing, non-degree offering in 15 months by
completing:

  * A Python and data science math pre-program boot camp
  * Four (4) technical core courses in AI and machine learning

Extensive programming experience is _not_ required.

Learn online, and pay tuition per course, without the commitment of a
traditional degree program. A limited number of merit-based scholarships are
available—All applicants are automatically considered.

Students who enroll and complete the certificate will have the option to
subsequently apply for the online Duke AI for Product Innovation Master of
Engineering.

  * Watch a video overview of the program
  * Join our mailing list

How to Apply

> Certificate courses are taught by the same faculty that teaches in our
> Master of Engineering degree program.

## courses

Semester Course Titles  
Summer (Prerequisite)

Python & Data Science Math Boot Camp  
  
Fall 1

AIPI 510: Sourcing Data for Analytics  
  
Spring 1

AIPI 520: Modeling Process & Algorithms  
  
Summer 1

AIPI 540: Building Products Using Deep Learning  
  
  
Fall 2 AIPI 530: AI in Practice  
  
> Students who complete the certificate earn credits they can apply toward the
> online Duke AI for Product Innovation Master of Engineering degree.

## Certificate Program Details

### Admissions Policies and Practices

This certificate program is open to all qualified applicants worldwide.
Applications are accepted for the certificate program for the fall semester
only.

Admission to the AI Foundations for Product Innovation graduate certificate
program requires the following:

  * A bachelor’s degree in engineering or science from an accredited
    institution (transcripts required, including an estimated GPA and a grade
    scale)
  * Statement of purpose
  * Résumé
  * Two recommendations
  * English Language Testing (TOEFL or IELTS): official results required—
    _international applicants only_
  * Video introduction

How to apply

### Scholarships

For students joining the certificate program in the 2021-22 academic year, a
limited number of merit-based scholarships are available which cover 20
percent of tuition expenses.

All applicants to the program will be automatically considered for the
available scholarships.

### Program Costs

The amounts shown below include costs for the entire program, assuming normal
time to completion. There may be additional costs for living expenses. Note
that this information is subject to change:

Tuition $7,265 per 3-credit class, and a total of $29,460 for the certificate
**  
Transcript Fee $120 **  
Books $316  
TOTAL **$29,896**  
  
_**Notes**_

_** Duke may change its tuition for each academic year and this estimate is
based on current academic year tuition charges._  
  
### Applying the Certificate to the Master of Engineering

Students who enroll and successfully complete the certificate requirements
will have the option to subsequently apply for the online Duke AI for Product
Innovation Master of Engineering within four years, and use their certificate
courses (12.0 course credits) toward the degree (30.0 course credits), as long
as they earn a grade of B or better in each class.

Certificate holders who apply to the online Duke AI for Product Innovation
Master of Engineering program will additionally be required to provide GRE
scores.

Applicants who are accepted will then need to complete the remaining
requirements for the degree: typically, four electives, two Master of
Engineering management core courses, and the required on-campus residencies in
Durham, NC.

This is not an offer of preferential admission, and there is no guarantee of
admission.

### Not Eligible for VA Benefits or Federal Student Aid

This standalone online certificate program is not yet eligible for VA benefits
or federal student aid. Please check back for updates.

### Important Note for International Applicants

Please Note: This standalone online certificate program _does NOT_ qualify
students for U.S. visa sponsorship.

### Gainful Employment Disclosures*

#### Program Length

  * Typically 15 months (1 course per semester, including summer)

#### Student Loans

  * Information about average student debt, monthly debt expense and debt
    interest rate have been withheld since fewer than 10 students have
    completed this program

#### Job Placement Rates

  * We are not currently required to calculate a job placement rate for
    program completers
  * Program graduates are employed in the following fields:
    * Information Technology
    * Manufacturing
    * Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics
    * Transportation, Distribution, and Logistics

  * The program does not meet any licensing requirements
  * Additional Information: Date Created 3/15/2021

***** _These disclosures are required by the U.S. Department of Education_

## Join Our Mailing list

Receive information about this Duke Engineering graduate certificate program
and related online recruitment events:

Loading...

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __Industry Relations
    *  __Leadership
    *  __News
    *  __Contact

    * 

