

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Industry Relations
  * Leadership
  * News
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Certificate
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Apply

__

# AI for Product Innovation Courses

Our novel curriculum gives students the skill set they need to build
innovative AI-based products and systems

## Pre-Program Preparation

### AIPI 503: Python Programming Boot Camp

The four-week online boot camp is designed to help students build proficiency
in the use of Python for Data Science. It covers foundational concepts and
also provides hands-on experience with critical skills including loading,
cleaning, manipulating, visualizing, analyzing and interpreting data. Upon
completion of this course, students will be in a position to use their skills
to identify, formulate and solve some practical data analysis problems.

The first two modules will provide an introduction to basic Python. From
there, the class will focus on building proficiency with three critical for
Data Science Python libraries (Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib). The final module
will focus on a review of probability and statistics with an emphasis on
simulation of chance experiments. Topics for this last module will include
discrete distributions, continuous density functions, combinatorics,
conditional probabilities and a final review of important densities and
functions.

Students who are proficient in Python as well as the data science libraries
covered will have the option to test out of the bootcamp.

## Technical Core

### AIPI 510: Sourcing Data for Analytics

In industry, one of the main activities, and challenges, of implementing
machine learning applications are collecting data to use in modeling. This
course introduces students to methods and tools used for data collection,
storage, manipulation, analysis and visualization. The first segment of the
course will be an introduction to numerical programming focused on building
skills in working with data via the Numpy and Pandas libraries, two of the
most common tools used by teams working with data and modeling. Technical
aspects covered will include the types of data, methods of sourcing data via
the web, APIs, and from domain-specific sensors and hardware (IoT devices), an
increasingly common source of analytics data in technical industries. The
course also introduces methods and tools for evaluating the quality of data,
performing basic exploratory data analysis, and pre-processing data for use in
analytics. Non-technical aspects covered include an introduction to data
privacy, GDPR, regulatory issues, bias, and industry-specific concerns
regarding data usage.

### AIPI 520: Modeling Process & Algorithms

This course is an introduction to the modeling process and best practices in
model creation, interpretation, validation, and selection of models for
different uses. The primary machine learning algorithms, both supervised and
unsupervised, are introduced and students become familiar with both the
mathematical theory and the programming application of the models. The primary
focus is on statistical learning approaches but the course also introduces
deep learning and its applications. At the end of this course, students should
have a solid understanding of the end-to-end modeling process and the
different types of model algorithms along with the strengths, weaknesses,
assumptions, and use cases for each type, and be capable of training and using
models in Python. Students who have taken one or more prior machine learning
courses in their undergraduate institution will have the option to take an
additional technical elective instead of AIPI 520.

### AIPI 530: Optimization in Practice

Optimization is the ultimate skill in artificial intelligence and prescriptive
analytics allowing practitioners to generate the best actionable solutions for
business needs. This class will give students required skills to
mathematically formulate relevant business problems as optimization models,
use leading software modeling syntax and solvers to generate optimum solutions
and meaningfully interpret these solutions. We will use both SAS/Optmodel and
Python/Pyomo to give student experience with proprietary and open-source
optimization software. Focus will be on problem formulation and results
interpretation.

### AIPI 531: Deep Reinforcement Learning Applications

Deep Reinforcement Learning Applications will cover advanced sequential
decision-making topics in AI and will consist of two parts 1) deep
reinforcement learning theory and 2) deep reinforcement learning applications.
The theory module will introduce students to major deep reinforcement learning
algorithms, modeling process, and programming. The applications module will
include case studies on the practical applications of deep reinforcement
learning in industry. This is a project-based course with extensive
Pytorch/Tensorflow hands-on exercises.

### AIPI 540: Deep Learning Applications

This course focuses on the primary use cases of deep learning to solve
challenging problems particularly in the areas of computer vision, natural
language processing and recommendation systems. Students will develop an
understanding of both the mathematical theory and programmatic implementation
of neural networks using Python. The course includes significant hands-on
team-based project work and an emphasis on self-discovery. The semester will
be split into three core modules: computer vision, NLP, and recommendation
systems. Each module will include lectures, assignments, a team project, and a
review of recent research in the field.

## AI Operations Core

### AIPI 501: Industry Seminar Series

Students will attend a weekly seminar series featuring industry leaders
discussing the opportunities, challenges and learnings they have gained from
applying AI to products and services in their industry. Speakers will present
live in-classroom or via video conference. The emphasis in the selection of
speakers will be placed on representing more traditional industries that are
poised to be disrupted by AI such as agriculture, health care/biotech, energy
and environment, and manufacturing. The seminar series will reinforce the
concepts learned in the core courses and expand studentsâ€™ intuition for the
opportunities to apply AI within more complex and/or traditional industries.

### AIPI 560: Legal, Societal & Ethical Implications of AI

Deploying AI within products and services has implications well beyond the
technical considerations, which often include change management of operational
workflows or staffing levels, data privacy considerations, bias risks and
other ethical implications, and industry-specific regulations on the use of
data and models operationally. This course will introduce students to the key
areas of consideration when deploying products that contain AI:

  1. Legal implications and industry regulation
  2. Ethical considerations
  3. Change management and organizational/societal implications

Case studies will be used extensively to provide real-world examples.

### AIPI 561: Operationalizing AI (MLOps)

Deploying AI in production requires consideration of factors such as online
model training, scaling, integration with software/hardware products,
monitoring/support, security and failure resiliency. This course introduces
students via real-world case studies to methods and best practices in
deploying AI operationally within products and services, including both
technology and support infrastructure considerations. The course will also
introduce available technologies for working with Big Data in industries that
require specialized infrastructure and tools due to the volume of data.

## Management Core

### MENG 540: Management of High-Tech Industries

Decision making in complex environments; emphasis on project analysis, complex
investment analyses, strategic decision making where outcomes depend on high
technology, and the role of decisions in product development. Management in
high tech firms; emphasis on management of professionals, management of
project-based and team-based organizational structures, and the role of the
manager in expertise-driven organizations.

### MENG 570: Business Fundamentals for Engineers

This comprehensive course examines core and evolving concepts in the business
fundamentals of successful technology-based companies including Business Plan
Development & Strategies, Marketing, Product & Process Development processes,
Intellectual Property, Accounting, Finance, and Operations. Students will
learn the fundamentals essential to understanding all aspects of a business
and will be able to converse in some depth in each of the areas studied upon
completion. Other topics will include Supply Chain Management, Stage-Gate
Development Cycles, Balances Scorecards, Blue Ocean Strategy, and Disruptive
Technologies.

## Elective Options

_Note: In addition to the courses listed below, students in this master's
degree program may take other graduate-level elective courses within Duke's
Pratt School of Engineering, on a space-available basis with instructor
permission._

ML Engineering Track

### AIPI 590 / IDS 721: Data Analysis at Scale in the Cloud

This course is designed to give students a comprehensive view of cloud
computing including Big Data and Machine Learning. A variety of learning
resources will be used including interactive labs on Cloud Platforms (Google,
AWS, Azure). This is a project-based course with extensive hands-on
assignments.

####

### AIPI 531: Deep Reinforcement Learning Applications

This course will cover advanced sequential decision-making topics in AI and
will consist of two parts: 1) deep reinforcement learning theory and 2) deep
reinforcement learning applications. Deep reinforcement learning combines
reinforcement learning and deep learning. The theory module will introduce
students to major deep reinforcement learning algorithms, modeling process,
and programming. The applications module will include case studies on the
practical applications of deep reinforcement learning in industry. This is a
project-based course with extensive Pytorch/Tensorflow hands-on exercises.
Students will also have an opportunity to improve their GitHub profile by
working on projects.

### ECE 564: Mobile App Development

Explores the world of mobile application development with a focus on the needs
of engineers. Centered on the Apple environment, with the development
environment being on OS X and the target environment being an iOS device-
iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch or Apple Watch. Real-world- and context-focused on
the common programming patterns for engineers in academia or business-
standalone apps, apps connected to other systems, apps connected to the cloud.
Covers fundamentals essential to understanding all aspects of app development.
Taught in a team environment. Students are required to present their project
proposals and deliver an app as a final project.

###

### EGRMGMT 590-01: Software, Solution & Enterprise Architecture

Students learn the concepts and principles about how a software system is
constructed at the highest level. Software architecture is the fundamental
design of the entire system. It defines what elements are included in the
system, what function each element has, and how each element relates to one
another. In short, it is the big picture or overall structure of the whole
system, how the enterprise technology system works together. Having a clear
design of the overall system as a starting point helps to provide a solid
basis for developers to follow and it allows higher productivity and software
quality. Students immerse themselves into architecture understanding from
multiple perspectives through various UML diagrams including different
software architectures frameworks, when and how they are used, their
advantages and disadvantages. Software architecture is tied to many practical
business concerns. These include the skills and organization of the software
engineering team, the needs of the business, the development cycle, and the
intent of the software itself.

### EGRMGMT 590-03: Software Business Management

In todayâ€™s world software is pervasive in most if not all companies. A
software business is a commercial activity aimed at producing, buying, and
selling software products or services. Well-run software companies are known
for their high profit margins. This course will focus on understanding the key
success factors for software organizations to drive their portfolio strategy
by mapping out monetization models, pricing, vendor management, professional
services, development & continuous delivery, road mapping & maintenance.

### CYBERSEC 511: Cybersecurity in the Software Development Lifecycle

Teaches students about all steps of the software development lifecycle and the
role Cybersecurity design principles play in requirements definition, design,
development, testing, and maintenance. Tools and techniques to provide
software security analysis and software assurance will be explored including
software reverse engineering.

### CYBERSEC 520: Applying Machine Learning to Advance Cybersecurity

The use of machine learning and AI is becoming more prevalent for collecting
and analyzing data as its consolidation increases in value. Cyberattacks seek
to steal, deny access, misrepresent (such as deepfakes), or compromise the
privacy of information. Students will explore the power of machine learning
and AIâ€™s use in enhancing Cybersecurity tools across the NIST Framework and
also in detecting and exploiting vulnerabilities in timeframes and ways
heretofore unthinkable.

### ECE 663: ML in Adversarial Settings

Machine learning is being widely deployed in many aspects of our society. Our
vision is that machine learning systems will become a new attack surface and
attackers will exploit the vulnerabilities in machine learning algorithms and
systems to subvert their security and privacy. In this course, we will discuss
security and privacy attacks to machine learning systems and state-of-the-art
defenses against them.

### EGRMGMT 575: Software Quality Management

This class will introduce students to five different business personas that
play a key role in the software development lifecycleâ€”customer, software
engineer, software release/quality manager, customer support engineer, and
general manager. The students will better appreciate the perspectives that
each of these personas brings to their role and how that affects the
"delivered" quality that customers actually experience. The course will also
help students understand how to assess customer business outcomes,
expectations and measure customer experience. Finally, the class will provide
exposure to current industry practices and include guest speakers who can give
real-world examples relevant to software quality management

Data Science Track

### BME 580: Biomedical Data Science

This course will teach a combination of theory and application of biomedical
data science principles using multi-scale biomedical data; including multi-
omics, wearable sensor, and electronic health records data. Basic principles
of data mining, exploratory data analysis, and statistics will be reviewed,
and students will be introduced to supervised and unsupervised machine
learning and model evaluation and selection methods. Methodology learned in
classes will be applied in the assignments and class project to real-world
multi-omics, wearable sensor, and electronic health records data.

####

### BIOSTAT 709: Observational Studies

Methods for causal inference, including confounding and selection bias in
observational or quasi-experimental research designs, propensity score
methodology, instrumental variables and methods for non-compliance in
randomized clinical trials.

### EGRMGMT 590-05: Software Business Management

In todayâ€™s world software is pervasive in most if not all companies. A
software business is a commercial activity aimed at producing, buying, and
selling software products or services. Well-run software companies are known
for their high profit margins. This course will focus on understanding the key
success factors for software organizations to drive their portfolio strategy
by mapping out monetization models, pricing, vendor management, professional
services, development & continuous delivery, road mapping & maintenance.

####  __

### STA 640: Causal Inference

Statistical issues in causality and methods for estimating causal effects.
Randomized designs and alternative designs and methods for when randomization
is infeasible: matching methods, propensity scores, longitudinal treatments,
regression discontinuity, instrumental variables, and principal
stratification. Methods are motivated by examples from social sciences, policy
and health sciences.

### STA 663: Statistical Computation

Statistical modeling and machine learning involving large data sets and
challenging computation. Data pipelines and data bases, big data tools,
sequential algorithms and subsampling methods for massive data sets, efficient
programming for multi-core and cluster machines, including topics drawn from
GPU programming, cloud computing, Map/Reduce and general tools of distributed
computing environments. Intense use of statistical and data manipulation
software will be required. Data from areas such as astronomy, genomics,
finance, social media, networks, neuroscience.

### ECE 682D: Probabilistic Machine Learning

Introduction to concepts in probabilistic machine learning with a focus on
discriminative and hierarchical generative models. Topics include directed and
undirected graphical models, kernel methods, exact and approximate parameter
estimation methods, and structure learning. The course assumes a prior
background in linear algebra and probability & statistics.

### __

## Capstone Project

### AIPI 549: Capstone Project

Students will work in teams of 3-5 to complete a Machine Learning/Artificial
Intelligence project for a company sponsor around a real-world problem or
opportunity they are facing. The project will require students to put into
practice many of the skills learned during the program, including both
technical and non-technical. Students will have the opportunity to engage
directly with representatives from their company partner organization as well
as receive guidance from Duke faculty members over the course of the project.
The capstone team will present their final deliverables to a sponsor panel
and/or an external review panel.

## Internship or Project

### MENG 550: Master of Engineering Internship or Project

  * Internships are typically 8-12 weeks. The minimum hourly requirement for
    the internship is 320 hours, equivalent to 8 weeks, 40 hours per week.
    Projects require approval from the AIPI program director. Projects must
    fulfill the same learning objectives as internships. Although students are
    responsible for finding their own internship, Duke provides an experienced
    career development team to help with your search.

All internships/projects must:

  * Apply engineering principles to solving one or more problems outside the
    classroom environment
  * Define a problem and determine potential solutions
  * Appreciate the importance of organizational dynamics and work
    relationships
  * Practice professional communication both written and orally
  * Complement material presented in the AIPI courses
  * Include a self-assessment upon completion in AIPI 551

### MENG 551: Master of Engineering Internship or Project Assessment

This assessment course is the culmination of your internship or project work.
You will prepare a substantive assessment of your internship or project
experience via a written report and/or oral presentation. A polished analysis
should include:

  * Problem or task conducted
  * Challenges faced
  * Solutions incorporated
  * Workplace communication and interpersonal relationship critique
  * Individual performance review

â€‹

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events Â»

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __Industry Relations
    *  __Leadership
    *  __News
    *  __Contact

    * 

