

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Industry Relations
  * Leadership
  * News
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Certificate
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Apply

__

# News

March 29, 2023 | **_The News & Observer_**

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

Digital tools can gather photos, like that selfie you just posted on
Instagram, and sell the information for uses that control you in some way,
write Duke ECE's Cynthia Rudin and intern Lance Browne

February 02, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Making Real Impact: Duke Engineering Professional Master's Graduates

Duke Engineering's December 2022 professional master's graduates are prepared
for careers of deep meaning and broad impact

October 21, 2022 | **_Duke Computer Science_**

### Data, Data, Everywhere: Jian Pei Works to Bring Equity to Data Science

New Duke ECE faculty member Jian Pei, known for interdisciplinary research,
also has an appointment within Duke Computer Science.

September 28, 2022 | **_BehavioralEconomics.com_**

### Boosting Transit Ridership – $2 at a Time

Bhargav Shetgaonkar, a student in Duke's AI for Product Innovation master's
degree program, describes research suggesting that small cash incentives may
induce more people to ride public buses and trains

September 22, 2022

### Shining a Spotlight On: Diarra Bell

As a full-time working professional it was important for Diarra to continue
developing her career while attending graduate school. She chose Duke
Engineering.

August 24, 2022 | **_MLOps Podcast with Noah Gift_**

### Podcast: Jon Reifschneider on Duke's AI for Product Innovation Master's
Degree

The AI for Product Engineering Master of Engineering at Duke opens doors to
high-impact careers.

August 24, 2022 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### New International Graduate Students Take a SLICE of Life in Durham

In its second year, the Summer Language Intensive Communication Experience
acclimated a group of new international graduate students to life at Duke and
Durham

June 12, 2022 | **_HiPEAC Blog_**

### Duke ECE's Hai "Helen" Li: Machine Learning Should Consider Vertical
Integration

The HiPEAC 2022 keynote speaker discusses the fascinating – and now ubiquitous
– topic of machine learning

June 02, 2022 | **_Duke MEDx_**

### Reflections from Barr-Spach MD/Engineering Scholarship Recipients
Christine Park and Miranda Morris

Two students in medicine and engineering at Duke talk about their experience
in the Duke master's program in AI and machine learning

June 02, 2022 | **_DukeMEDx_**

### Reflections from Barr-Spach Scholarship recipients

Christine Park and Miranda Morris are recent recipients of the Barr-Spach
Medicine and Engineering scholarship.

## Pages

  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * next ›
  * last »

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __Industry Relations
    *  __Leadership
    *  __News
    *  __Contact

    * 

