

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# Emerging Leaders at the Intersection of Engineering and Entrepreneurship

July 11, 2019 | By Philip Liu

The new A. James Clark Scholars Program at Duke selects 10 incoming students
each year for a demanding yet rewarding curriculum focused on leadership,
service, and business and entrepreneurship

Duke University received $15 million from the A. James & Alice B. Clark
Foundation to establish a new program focused on leadership, service, business
and entrepreneurship at the Pratt School of Engineering. This endowment is the
single largest gift to Duke Engineering for an undergraduate scholarship
program. Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke, supports the
view of the Clark Foundation, remarking that, "Technology is profoundly
changing the world, and engineering leaders with business savvy and
entrepreneurial mindsets will undoubtedly shape our future."

The A. James Clark Scholars Program is a signature component of Duke
Engineering's initiative to encourage an entrepreneurial mindset among all its
undergraduate students. Ten promising students will be selected each year
based on financial need, academic accomplishments, engagement in engineering
and leadership skills. Throughout their undergraduate experience, each Clark
Scholar will receive financial support to help offset loans, work-study and
summer requirements. This will allow them time and freedom to participate in
unpaid service, extracurricular activities, internships and the creation of
their own startup. They will receive one-on-one mentorship, access to business
courses and leadership training, and a focused summer program in
entrepreneurship and management.

## The First Class of Clark Scholars

Arriving on campus for a full pre-orientation week, the Clark Scholars began
the Duke experience with workshops on learning and practicing resiliency, a
necessary skill for both engineering and entrepreneurial ventures. Training
continued with team-bonding exercises and personality tests, helping the
students to become aware of the strengths that they can apply when working in
team environments.

"College is a time for personal growth and development—practicing the
resiliency lessons we learned really helps. These are some of my best friends
now. We eat together, we study together, we hang out together; it's everything
I could've imagined," said Filip Bartel, one of the inaugural Clark Scholars.

The students unanimously agreed the first week was an amazing opportunity,
making them feel like a family and setting the stage for a great college
experience.

Bill Walker, the Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurship at Duke
Engineering, and Steven McClelland, executive-in-residence in the Pratt School
of Engineering, are leading this initiative as part of their involvement in
all of Duke's entrepreneurial engineering efforts. Alumni of Duke Engineering
themselves, they over 40 combined years of work experience in technology
companies. They maintain a mindset of creating leaders who transform and
better the lives of others.

"They're approachable, caring, knowledgeable and intelligent. There aren't
enough positive adjectives to describe them," said Clark Scholar Hosam Tagel-
Din.

The Clark Scholars Program honors the values of A. James Clark, a successful
engineer, businessman and philanthropist. Duke University joins the Clark
Scholars network including The George Washington University, Georgia Tech,
Johns Hopkins University, The University of Maryland, University of
Pennsylvania, Stevens Institute of Technology, Vanderbilt University, The
University of Virginia and Virginia Tech.

"We are honored to partner with Duke University to establish the Clark
Scholars Program as part of our commitment to building the pipeline of future
engineers," said Joe Del Guercio, president and CEO of the A. James & Alice B.
Clark Foundation.

Duke alumna Courtney Clark Pastrick '77, board chairman of the A. James &
Alice B. Clark Foundation, noted that she is particularly proud to have Duke
University become a member of the Clark Scholars network. "My dad always
talked about the transformative impact a scholarship had on his life. At the
Foundation, we want to ensure that generations of students are not limited by
their financial status but propelled by their potential and promise," she
said.

The cohort will begin their first community service project together in the
spring. With their newly formed network and connections at Duke, they plan to
inspire others to give back.

"These students truly embody Duke's 'outrageous ambitions' to take on
humanity's greatest challenges, and we are excited to welcome them to Duke and
to the Pratt School of Engineering," Bellamkonda concluded.

Scholar bios can be found at clarkscholars.duke.edu/scholars. Visit the A.
James & Alice B. Clark Foundation at clarkfoundationdc.org.

**Philip Liu is a first-year student double majoring in mechanical engineering
and economics.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

## Related News

September 12, 2019

### Class of 2023 A. James Clark Scholars Arrive at Duke

August 20, 2018

### 10 of Nation's Brightest College-Bound Students Selected as Inaugural A.
James Clark Scholars at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

