

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# Growing Student Group Promotes Drones Across Campus

July 12, 2019 | By Alex Xu

Students founded a new chapter of the Academy of Model Aeronautics in response
to a growing interest in drones among the student body

In recent years, the development and use of unmanned aerial systems (UAS) has
skyrocketed. Commonly known as drones, these systems have wide-ranging
applications from exploration and research to art and recreation. The Duke
Academy of Model Aeronautics (AMA) was founded in April 2018 in response to
this growing interest in drones among the student body.

As a chapter of the national AMA organization and the only student
organization dedicated to promoting drone technology on Duke’s campus, Duke
AMA seeks to create a space for students to explore drones and their potential
applications. This includes advocating for safety while operating drones, as
well as teaching students how to design and build these unmanned systems.

The original motivation for Duke AMA stemmed from work by Duke’s team in the
Shell Ocean Discovery XPRIZE competition, a program aimed at advancing the
development of robotic technologies in deepsea research. As part of the Ocean
Engineering and Robotics class led by Martin Brooke, associate professor of
electrical and computer engineering, the competition required a team of
students from the Pratt School of Engineering to develop an 18-motor heavy-
lift drone that was capable of carrying sensors to map the ocean floor.

Through that effort, team members and engineering students Virginia Pan and
Yao Yuan saw great potential in exploring drone technology and a demand for a
drone-focused campus organization. As a result, they launched Duke AMA with
Brooke as their faculty advisor to bring attention to drones across Duke’s
campus.

## A Better Drone Policy

Duke AMA’s current work seeks to reform Duke’s campus drone policy, which the
organization considers to be too limiting. Other than two designated flight
sites in the Duke Forest, drone use on campus requires special approval from
the Duke Drone Committee, and hobbyist use is generally prohibited.
Consequently, Duke AMA has been pushing for changes including a well-defined
safety code that would offer students more freedom to fly drones on campus
while still maintaining the necessary regulations.

As part of its goal to improve drone safety and accessibility, Duke AMA also
provides all of its members with liability insurance for piloting drones. The
group has also established an indoor flight space in The Foundry, a makerspace
in the basement of Gross Hall. Even students with minimal piloting experience
are able to fly small-scale drones there with the protection of safety nets.

## Sky-High Projects

Duke AMA also facilitates the development of new applications for drones by
funding student projects. Virginia Pan, the president of the organization,
says, “The aim is to inspire students to come up with their own project
ideas.”

One project spearheaded by a Duke AMA team is developing a low-cost
firefighting surveillance drone equipped with thermal imaging technology. They
hope to make the use of drones in firefighting operations more cost-efficient,
accessible and widely available. They are experimenting with a quadcopter
platform and are planning to implement the technology at larger scales that
may be better suited for longer-range applications, such as forest fires.

Meanwhile, another team of students is in the initial stages of designing a
drone powered by a novel power source—hydrogen. Currently, drones are
typically powered by lithium polymer (LiPo) batteries. Because LiPo batteries
have low energy density, and the power required by drones increases steeply as
weight is added, adding more batteries doesn’t necessarily result in longer
flight times.

The team is investigating the practicality of hydrogen (with a hundredfold
increase in energy density compared to LiPo batteries) as an energy source to
power drones. They wish to build one of the first hydrogen drone prototypes in
existence and gather experimental data for analysis.

## Not Just for Engineers

For Pratt’s students, Duke AMA provides an opportunity to gain hands-on, real-
world experience while working with some of the latest technologies, including
autonomous flight and artificial intelligence. “It’s a great way to practice
what you learn,” says Yao Yuan, vice president of Duke AMA.

Because the group isn’t focused on competing in one single competition,
students developing projects have increased flexibility and resources. “We
give members as much freedom as possible to pursue their own interests. If you
have any drone idea, we aim to help you,” Yuan adds.

As projects become increasingly multidisciplinary, however, Duke AMA is
seeking non-engineering students from across the university as well. It has
plans to collaborate in the future with the Nicholas School of the
Environment, Innovation Co-Lab and Duke Photography Club for drone
applications around campus.

## Future of Drones at Duke

Besides teaching more students about drone safety, advocating for changes to
campus drone policy and providing piloting training, Duke AMA hopes to expand
its horizons with more projects and get even more students involved. With
planned projects to optimize wing shape design for fixed-wing aircraft and
build 360-degree drone cameras, the future of drones at Duke looks promising.

**Alex Xu is a first-year student intending to major in electrical and
computer engineering. He is passionate about aerospace, robotics and
photography.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

