

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# Improving Patient Outcomes by Analyzing Wearable Data

July 11, 2019 | By Diane Chernoff

MEDx Investigator Jessilyn Dunn brings a fresh perspective on big data and
wearable technology to Duke’s growing network of engineering and medical
collaborations

Over the past few years, Duke University has launched an interdisciplinary
initiative to strengthen research and innovation in the realms of data
science, engineering and medicine.

MEDx (Medicine and Engineering at Duke, https://medx.duke.edu/), a
collaboration between the Pratt School of Engineering and School of Medicine
begun in summer 2015, promotes the exchange of ideas between doctors,
engineers, researchers and innovators. Through interdisciplinary programs,
MEDx hopes to stimulate the development of new therapies, diagnostics, devices
and educational opportunities in order to accelerate science and its
translation to clinical practice to improve patient care.

The effort is already bearing fruit, as Duke has proudly made advancements in
health informatics, drug and device innovation, tissue and genetic
engineering, reverse-engineering the brain, and basic science fields. One of
the primary areas of growth has been driven by new biomedical imaging and
sensing technologies that generate new data for electronic health records and
beyond. By studying these topics, students and faculty seek to develop
innovative data science, machine learning and digital health modeling
approaches to improve biomedical data analytics and patient care.

To build on its leadership in this arena, Duke University’s Departments of
Biomedical Engineering and Biostatistics and Bioinformatics welcomed Jessilyn
Dunn as a new faculty member and MEDx investigator (with appointments in both
engineering and medicine) in January 2019. Dunn served as a postdoctoral
fellow at Stanford University, obtained a PhD in biomedical engineering from
Georgia Tech and Emory University, and graduated from Johns Hopkins University
with a BSE in biomedical engineering. In previous work, Dunn has conducted
research in multi-modal biomedical data integration with the goal of improving
personalized medicine.

Each year, MEDx works alongside departments in both the School of Medicine and
Pratt School of Engineering to award grants to support pilot projects. This
year, one of the winning projects is spearheaded by Dunn and Mark Feinglos,
professor of medicine and associate professor of psychiatry and behavior
sciences and pathology. Together, the two are examining digital biomarkers of
pre-diabetes and glycemic variability. The project coincides with Dunn’s
research on multi-omic biomolecular data sets, which include genomics,
epigenomics, proteomics and metabolomics.

In addition to her MEDx project, Dunn plans to continue her research in
biomedical big data at Duke, with a focus on studying the information stored
in consumer wearable devices to gain insights into patient health.

As medical technology becomes more accessible to patients outside the
clinic—as well as more more ubiquitous and consumer friendly—Dunn has learned
to take advantage of such technologies. She has studied data collected from
wearable devices like Apple Watches and Fitbits with the intention of using
the data to make general predictions on patient conditions that can be applied
to larger patient populations and improve future patient care.

Many wearable devices on the market today collect data on users’ daily
activity, sleep patterns, workout habits and basic conditions like heart rate
and body temperature. “Most of life occurs outside of the clinic, and by
analyzing the data recorded by these wearable devices, we can capture patient
health outside of the clinic,” Dunn explained.

Dunn hopes to collect information that is clinically actionable from the
wearable devices, like the users’ heart rate, physical activity, temperature,
electrodermal activity and location, to make general predictions on patient
health. “We can use the data to make a prediction that someone is
deteriorating in some area based on the data we can collect from their watch,”
Dunn said.

Dunn’s research is not case specific, and she hopes to apply large-scale data
science principles on data collected from wearable devices to broader
populations. “Instead of focusing on developing more complex sensors, we hope
to understand what more basic sensors can accomplish and translate the things
that we learn from individual patients to a broader population as well as make
predictions about future health events,” Dunn added.

Dunn’s research is focused on studying data collected from wearable devices to
make improvements in treating patients with cardiometabolic disease.
Cardiometabolic diseases, which are combinations of cardiovascular diseases,
like heart disease, and metabolic conditions, such as diabetes, are epidemics
across the country.

As Dunn joins Duke, she looks forward to working with patients, physicians and
researchers who may benefit and contribute to her research, saying, “We are
developing a comprehensive infrastructure for personalized risk classification
and tailored, remote intervention strategies.”

In the coming months, Dunn is looking forward to taking advantage of Duke’s
“stateof- the-art medical facilities, data science and localization to the
Southeast.” Through Duke’s cross-campus initiatives to integrate biomedical
engineering and medical research, she is confident that her research will
accelerate through collaborations with MEDx and other research and clinical
groups on campus.

As Dunn prepares to join the Duke family, she says she is “most looking
forward to getting involved with both the Duke and surrounding community and
building an impactful translational research program.”

**Diane Chernoff is a first-year Pratt student planning to major in biomedical
engineering from New York.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

