

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# Sustainability and Collaboration Under One Roof

July 11, 2019 | By Jade Grimes

Scheduled to open for classes in 2021, Duke's new engineering building is
already being used as a learning experience

It’s not uncommon to hear alumni reminisce of the time when there was no
“E-quad,” when the area in front of Hudson was a mere parking lot, and when
Science Drive connected to Research Drive. The Pratt School of Engineering’s
newest building, the Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary Engineering,
Medicine, and Applied Sciences, opened in 2004, transforming a parking lot
behind the libraries into what students now know as the Harrington Engineering
Quad. The Fitzpatrick Center doubled the building space for engineering
students. Now, 15 years later, teaching space in Engineering is doubling once
again to include a $115 million, 150,000-square-foot, five-floor addition.

As part of the recent Duke Engineering initiative to give students an
educational experience that encourages firsthand experience with design, data
science, computing, research and entrepreneurship, the new research spaces, or
“neighborhoods,” will not be appropriated to individual departments, but
rather overarching academic themes, like health innovation, computing and
intelligent systems, and environmental health. Dean Ravi Bellamkonda stresses
that he’s excited about the “quality of the space,” one that includes new labs
(for design and research), offices, workstations, a learning commons, a new
auditorium, open classrooms, and collaboration spaces. He also hinted at the
possibility of a studio for videos and podcasts.

Designed to encourage active student learning, the open classrooms have their
seating around large tables rather than rows of individual desks. Common
areas, like the learning commons, a fourth-floor terrace and informal study
spaces further promote collaboration.

Dean Bellamkonda notes that the new building is at a great location. At the
intersection of the medical school, Pratt, Trinity and the libraries, “It is
the closest engineering will be to the main quad” and even “looks out to the
Chapel from many conference rooms.” The critical placement reinforces the
intent behind the research neighborhoods by allowing faculty and students from
multiple Duke schools and disciplines to work together on improving the
future.

Mitchell Vann, Duke Engineering’s director of facilities, infrastructure and
safety, emphasizes that while the building design promotes the creation of new
technologies and innovations, the building itself makes use of new and
sustainable technologies for water conservation, energy performance and
resource management. It is expected to receive a LEED certification of at
least silver.

By combining chilled water flow through beams as air conditioning, optimizing
lab exhaust through experimental wind tunnel testing and employing other
energy-conscious construction methods, the building has an “energy performance
30 percent beyond code requirements,” according to Vann. Over 20 percent of
the building’s materials are from regional sources and over 20 percent are
from recycled sources. A semipermeable continuous air barrier will reduce the
building’s moisture intake while insulation, sun shading devices and a solar
reflectance “cool roof ” will reduce heat intake.

The construction of the new building is also being used as a learning
experience. Skanska USA is providing class and student group construction
tours of the site until summer 2020. Even years before its opening, the
building is offering students a real-world view on infrastructure,
sustainability, systems and construction engineering. Undoubtedly, when it
opens for classes in January 2021, the new engineering building will promote
the upward trajectory of the Pratt School of Engineering, a school on the
rise.

**Jade Grimes is a sophomore pursuing a double major in civil engineering and
environmental science with a certificate in architectural engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

