Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Graduate Courses

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters

_Note: Students may also take courses from other engineering departments
within Duke's Pratt School of Engineering, and courses from other graduate
schools at Duke with the permission of the adviser and the Director of
Graduate Studies._

### Quick Links

  * DukeHub
  * Registrar's Schedule of Courses
  * Academic Calendar
  * Graduate Bulletin
  * Inter-Institutional Registration
  * Course Withdrawal Form
  * Registrar's Office
  * Sakai

**510\. Diffraction and Spectrometry of Materials.** This course focuses on
the fundamentals and applications of x-ray and electron-beam based techniques
for the characterization of materials, covering a wide range of analytical
tools used in both scientific research and in industry. The class will cover a
broad selection of topics in diffraction for the study of the atomic structure
of materials, as well as spectrometry to investigate microscopic dynamics and
composition. The class will provide the students with the fundamental concepts
and a comprehensive understanding for applications to many x-ray / electron /
neutron scattering techniques, for the study of a wide range of materials,
including: energy materials, semiconductors, polymers, biomaterials, films,
nano-materials, or structural materials.

**511\. Computational Materials Science.** Since quantum mechanics was
invented, scientists have known that the properties of any material are, in
principle, governed by a set of mathematical rules that we know exactly. The
challenge is to use these laws that start at the smallest scale (atoms and
electrons) to predict phenomena that are macroscopically important. The
computers and methods that we have today are bringing us closer to this
vision. This course covers modern computational techniques for the prediction
of materials properties, beginning from the scale of electrons and atoms and
connecting to materials challenges in experiments today. Subjects covered
include Schrödinger's Equation and Density Functional Theory, Molecular
Dynamics, and so-called multiscale approaches to connect quantities computed
at the nanoscale to macroscopic properties. In addition to traditional
classroom teaching, the class incorporates specific examples as explicit
computer exercises for the participants.

**512\. Thermodynamics of Electronic Materials.** Basic thermodynamic concepts
applied to solid state materials with emphasis on technologically relevant
electronic materials such as silicon and GaAs. Thermodynamic functions, phase
diagrams, solubilities and thermal equilibrium concentrations of point
defects; non-equilibrium processes and the kinetic phenomena of diffusion,
precipitation, and growth. 3 units.

**513\. Nanobiomechanics.** The course focuses on the development of an
understanding of the mechanical properties of biopolymers such as DNA,
proteins and polysaccharides by examining these properties at the nanoscale
level both theoretically using polymer elasticity models and experimentally
through direct mechanical manipulations of individual molecules. The course
consists of didactic lectures and many laboratory demonstrations and real
experiments done by the students themselves. Objectives of the course are: i)
Review of single-molecule force spectroscopy (SMFS) techniques that allow
mechanical stretching and relaxing of single polymer chains to determine their
force-extension relationships; ii) Review of SMFS instrumentation (Scanning
Tunneling Microscopy (STM), Atomic Force Microscopy and Spectroscopy
(AFM/AFS)), magnetic tweezers (MT), optical tweezers (OT)) and their physical
principles, resolution and resolution limitations; iii) Principles of entropic
and enthalpic elasticity of biopolymers and their roles in biology such as in
passive elasticity of muscle; iv) Understanding force-induced mechanical
unfolding and refolding reactions of individual proteins, DNA and sugar
molecules; v) Principles of computer modeling of biopolymers and their force-
induced structural alterations; vi) designing novel, DNA encoded, protein-
based nanostructured biomaterials with tailored viscoelastic properties. 3
units.

**514\. Theoretical and Applied Polymer Science (GE, BB).** An intermediate
course in soft condensed matter physics dealing with the structure and
properties of polymers and biopolymers. Introduction to polymer syntheses
based on chemical reaction kinetics, polymer characterization. Emphasizes
(bio)polymers on surfaces and interfaces in aqueous environments, interactions
of (bio)polymer surfaces, including wetting and adhesion phenomena. 3 units.
C-L: Biomedical Engineering 529

**515\. Electronic Materials.** An advanced course in materials science and
engineering dealing with materials important for solid-state electronics and
the various semiconductors. Emphasis on thermodynamic concepts and on defects
in these materials. Materials preparation and modification methods for
technological defects in these materials. Prerequisite: Mechanical Engineering
221L. 3 units.

**516\. Thin-Film Photovoltaic Technology.** The earth receives approximately
120,000 terawatts (TWs) of solar energy annually (versus human consumption of
~15 TW), in a form that is renewable, reliable and geographically distributed.
One particular avenue for exploiting solar energy is the direct conversion of
sunlight into electricity or photovoltaics (PV). This course will focus in on
a promising class of solar cells based on thin-film absorbers, some of which
are already commercialized (e.g., CdTe, CIGS), while others are on the cutting
edge of new photovoltaics technology (e.g., perovskites). The course will
employ a combination of lecture, directed reading and hands-on approaches to
get a better appreciation of the advantages and challenges of this class of PV
technologies. The hands-on component of the course will involve fabricating PV
devices and employing contemporary characterization and modeling tools to
evaluate device performance. Both the specific techniques employed, as well as
the intellectual framework used in the course are more generally applicable to
other solar cell and electronic device technologies. Note: 12 student limit on
class size. 3 units.

**524\. Introduction to the Finite Element Method.** Investigation of the
finite element method as a numerical technique for solving linear ordinary and
partial differential equations, using rod and beam theory, heat conduction,
elastostatics and dynamics, and advective/diffusive transport as sample
systems. Emphasis placed on formulation and programming of finite element
models, along with critical evaluation of results. Topics include: Galerkin
and weighted residual approaches, virtual work principles, discretization,
element design and evaluation, mixed formulations, and transient analysis.
Prerequisites: a working knowledge of ordinary and partial differential
equations, numerical methods, and programming in FORTRAN. 3 units. C-L: see
Civil and Environmental Engineering 530

**525\. Nonlinear Finite Element Analysis.** Formulation and solution of
nonlinear initial/boundary value problems using the finite element method.
Systems include nonlinear heat conduction/diffusion, geometrically nonlinear
solid and structural mechanics applications, and materially nonlinear systems
(for example, elastoplasticity). Emphasis on development of variational
principles for nonlinear problems, finite element discretization, and
equation-solving strategies for discrete nonlinear equation systems. Topics
include: Newton-Raphson techniques, quasi-Newton iteration schemes, solution
of nonlinear transient problems, and treatment of constraints in a nonlinear
framework. An independent project, proposed by the student, is required.
Prerequisite: Civil Engineering 530(254) or consent of instructor. 3 units.
C-L: see Civil and Environmental Engineering 630

**527\. Buckling of Engineering Structures.** An introduction to the
underlying concepts of elastic stability and buckling, development of
differential equations and energy approaches, buckling of common engineering
components including link models, struts, frames, plates, and shells.
Consideration will also be given to inelastic behavior, postbuckling, and
design implications. Prerequisite: Civil Engineering 421L(131L) or consent of
instructor. 3 units. C-L: see Civil and Environmental Engineering 647

**531\. Engineering Thermodynamics.** Axiomatic formulations of the first and
second laws. General thermodynamic relationships and properties of real
substances. Energy, availability, and second law analysis of energy conversion
processes. Reaction and multiphase equilibrium. Power generation. Low
temperature refrigeration and the third law of thermodynamics. Thermodynamic
design. 3 units.

**532\. Convective Heat Transfer.** Models and equations for fluid motion, the
general energy equation, and transport properties. Exact, approximate, and
boundary layer solutions for laminar flow heat transfer problems. Use of the
principle of similarity and analogy in the solution of turbulent flow heat
transfer. Two-phase flow, nucleation, boiling, and condensation heat and mass
transfer. 3 units.

**535\. Biomedical Microsystems.** The objective of the course is to introduce
students to the interdisciplinary field of biomedical microsystems with an
emphasis on biomedical microelectromechanical systems (bioMEMS) and
microtechnologies. Topics include Scaling laws, Micropatterning of substrates
and cells, Microfluidics, Molecular biology on a chip, Cell-based chips for
biotechnology, BioMEMS for cell biology, Tissue microengineering, and
Microfabricated implants and sensors. 3 units.

**536\. Compressible Fluid Flow.** Basic concepts of the flow of gases from
the subsonic to the hypersonic regime. One-dimensional wave motion, the
acoustic equations, and waves of finite amplitude. Effects of area change,
friction, heat transfer, and shock on one-dimensional flow. Moving and oblique
shock waves and Prandtl-Meyer expansion. Prerequisite: Mechanical Engineering
336L or equivalent. 3 units.

**539\. Interfacial Transport Phenomena for Energy Technologies.** The main
topics of the course are transport phenomena taking place on interfaces in
renewable/sustainable energy technology. These transport phenomena comprise of
charge transport (ions and electrons, for example), heat transfer (conduction,
convection, radiation), and mass transfer (e.g. diffusion), sometimes coupled
with chemical reactions (catalytic, electrochemical, photochemical, etc.). We
will study these transport phenomena at interfaces, especially in the micro-
and nano-scale and apply this knowledge to energy conversion and storage
processes. All these interfacial transport phenomena are essential for
photovoltaic cells, fuel cells, batteries, desalination, solar-thermal
devices, thermoelectric devices, and many others. 3 units.

**541\. Intermediate Dynamics: Dynamics of Very High Dimensional Systems.**
Comprehensive treatment of the dynamic motion of particles and rigid bodies
with an introduction to nonlinear dynamics and the vibration of continuous
systems. Topics include: conservation of linear and angular momentum,
superposition applied to linear systems, motion in inertial and noninertial
frames of reference, Hamilton's principle and Langrange's equations, and
generalized coordinates. 3 units. C-L: see Civil and Environmental Engineering
625

**543\. Energy Flow and Wave Propagation in Elastic Solids.** Derivation of
equations for wave motion in simple structural shapes: strings, longitudinal
rods, beams and membranes, plates and shells. Solution techniques, analysis of
systems behavior. Topics covered include: nondispersive and dispersive waves,
multiple wave types (dilational, distortion), group velocity, impedance
concepts including driving point impedances and moment impedances. Power and
energy for different cases of wave propagation. Prerequisites: Engineering
244L(123L) and Mathematics 353(108) or consent of instructor. 3 units. C-L:
see Civil and Environmental Engineering 626

**544\. Advanced Mechanical Vibrations.** Advanced mechanical vibrations are
studied primarily with emphasis on application of analytical and computational
methods to machine design and vibration control problems. Equations of motion
are developed using Lagrange's equations. A single degree-of-freedom system is
used to determine free vibration characteristics and response to impulse,
harmonic periodic excitations, and random. The study of two and three degree-
of-freedom systems includes the determination of the eigenvalues and
eigenvectors, and an in-depth study of modal analysis methods. The finite
element method is used to conduct basic vibration analysis of systems with a
large number of degrees of freedom. The student learns how to balance rotating
machines, and how to design suspension systems, isolation systems, vibration
sensors, and tuned vibration absorbers. 3 units.

**555\. Applications in AI for Materials.** In this special topics course, AI
principles are applied to a series of materials science example problems, each
taught in a module by an expert in materials science and/or data science. Each
module spans 2-3 weeks, demonstrating an array of data science/AI methods in
unique materials case studies in advancing discovery or design principles.
Example modules include: Boosted decision trees for discovering structural
patterns controlling bandgaps in metamaterials, Machine learning to predict
dynamic heterogeneities in materials, and AI assisted design of high entropy
materials for catalysis. 3 units.

Details for current course located here: https://aim-
nrt.pratt.duke.edu/training/applications-data-and-materials-science

**555\. Data Driven Dynamic Systems and Control.**

**555\. Experiment Design and Research Methods (MS Capstone).** Students
define a hands-on project of their choice that would prepare them for research
in their preferred master’s study concentration. The design process is
employed to identify a problem, formulate it, propose design alternatives and
rank them, produce and test prototypes, refine and iterate on the selected
design. The experiments that are developed are incorporated within the
graduate and undergraduate curriculum. The course is composed of equal parts
design, technical content, and communication skills (including an online
portfolio). Projects can be further developed during the subsequent semester
to fulfill the master’s project requirement during the Poster Expo. 3 units.

Details for current course located here: https://sites.duke.edu/memscapstone/

**555\. Fundamentals of Soft Matter.** Soft matter is a subfield of science
that describes properties and behavior of an important class of materials
including polymers, colloids, surfactants, and liquid crystals. The course
provides a unified overview of key aspects of the physics of soft condensed
matter. The course introduces relevant energies, forces and time scales
governing the interactions of soft materials in bulk and at surfaces. The
course will touch upon concepts and phenomena including phase transitions,
self-assembly, and viscoelastic behavior of these materials. The main
objective of the course is to bring students to a common level of knowledge
and competency in soft condensed matter that allows them to pursue more
specialized directions in soft matter science. 3 units. See also PHY 590.

**555\. Intermediate Polymer Physics.** Review of Introduction to Polymer
Physics. Polyelectrolyte Solutions: counterion distribution, dilute &
semidilute solutions, adsorption, grafting. Random Branching and Gelation:
percolation model; gelation; mean field model; scaling picture of gelation.
Networks and Gels: history of rubber; thermodynamics of rubber; rubber
elasticity; swelling of polymer gels. Dynamics of Unentangled Polymers: Rouse
and Zimm models, semi-dilute unentangled solutions, relaxation modes,
diffusion. Dynamics of Entangled Polymers: polymer entanglements, reptation
model, stress relaxation. 3 units. See also PHY 590.

**555\. Intro to Programming.** This course builds strong programming
fundamentals, so that students can use computing to solve problems in your
research or other technical pursuits. Students spend half the semester
learning programming fundamentals in C and are then introduced to C++ and move
on to data structures and algorithms. During the last few weeks of class, you
willstudents write a program in C++ that generates a finite element mesh,
plans a path for a robot, or performs other functions according to the
student’s choice. C and C++ are chosen for the pedagogical benefit of learning
to program with “no magic,” for their applications in computer engineering,
and because a compiled executable can be very fast. After this course,
learning an additional programming language will be much easier. 3 units.

**555\. Introduction to Polymer Physics.** The overarching goals of this
course are to learn about the physical properties of polymers and to
demonstrate how these properties can be understood from simple molecular
models. The course is divided into the following units. Introduction: history;
polymer configurations; homopolymers and copolymers; types of polymeric
structures; molecular weight distributions. Ideal Chains: models of ideal
chains; conformations; free energy; scattering. Real Chains: excluded volume
interactions; deformations; temperature effects. Polyelectrolyte Chains:
Electrostatic interactions, distribution of counterions, models of
polyelectrolytes without and with added salt. Thermodynamics of Mixing:
entropy of mixing; enthalpy of mixing; equilibrium and stability; phase
diagrams; mixtures at low compositions. Polymer Solutions: theta solvent; poor
solvent; good solvent; semidilute theta solutions; polymer brush; multi-chain
adsorption. 3 units. See also: BME 590 and PHY 590.

**555\. Materials Synthesis and Processing.** Materials form the basis of most
modern technologies, whether referring to energy, data processing,
medical/health or consumer product application. While materials properties are
central to the application, the techniques used for processing functional
materials into films, crystals or bulk form, with carefully tailored
properties, are no less important and will form the basis of the class.
Additionally, the course will expose students to current materials
processing/application research thrusts at Duke. 3 units.

**555\. Microfluidics.** 3 units.

**555\. Model Predictive Control.** Introduction to state-space realizations,
set theory and optimization. Lyapunov stability theory. Proof of closed-loop
stability and persistent feasibility. Computation of quadratic terminal costs
and polyhedral constraints for linear systems. Explicit model predictive
control and robust receding horizon control will be introduced, time
permitting. 3 units.

**555\. Numerical Optimization.** Optimization has widespread applications
across science, engineering, economics and other fields. For instance,
optimization algorithms are commonly used in medical imaging, energy
exploration, machine learning, materials design, motion planning for robots,
and many other applications.​

The course covers theoretical and numerical aspects of nonlinear optimization.
Topics will include optimality conditions for constrained and unconstrained
optimization, line search and trust region approaches, Newton and quasi-newton
methods, methods for large scale optimization, and treatment of equality and
inequality constraints. The course will have a balance between theory,
algorithms, and computer implementation. 3 units.

**555\. Physics of Colloidal Dispersion.** This class will cover various
physical processes relevant to particles having a size scale of less than one
micrometer. The topics covered include hydrodynamics, electrostatics in salty
fluids, electrokinetics, Brownian motion, rheology, phase transitions,
flocculation, sedimentation, and particle capture. Students will write
programs in MATLAB to predict the trajectories of multiple particles in space,
and will assess various properties about ensembles of trajectories. 3 units.

**555\. Scientific Computing and Intro ML.** This course provides an
introduction to key concepts in computer simulation, scientific computing and
machine learning that are of paramount importance across many engineering (and
non-engineering) applications (e.g. stress analysis of prostheses, vehicle
crash testing, autonomous systems, additive manufacturing, etc.). All the
techniques introduced in the course will be motivated with real applications.
The first part of the course will cover concepts related to numerical methods
for solving linear systems, nonlinear systems, eigenvalue problems,
optimization, and an introduction to methods for physics-based simulations.

The second part of the course will introduce fundamentals of machine learning
tools for unsupervised and supervised learning. We will also cover practical
aspects such as data acquisition, feature extraction, training, testing, and
performance assessment. The machine learning part will involve a project
related to sound/audio classification.

Prerequisites: Linear Algebra, Calculus, and basic programming in Python or
MATLAB. 3 units.

**555\. Solar Thermal Energy Applications.** Characteristics of solar
radiation, blackbody model. Wien displacement law, greenhouse effect. Flat
plate collectors and evacuated tube collectors, cosine losses, energy balance
for flat plate collectors. Thermal storage by sensible heat and latent heat.
Fluid mechanics and pumping losses. Trough solar, dish solar, concentration
ratio, conversion engines for dish solar. Heliostat systems for power
generation, materials for primary and secondary loops, steam cycle. Basics of
passive solar architecture. 3 units.

**555\. Wind Turbine Design and Analysis.** An introduction to the design and
analysis of horizontal-axis wind turbines. Topics include wind as a resource,
economics of wind power generation, aerodynamics of horizontal axis wind
turbines, actuator disk, rotor disk, and rotor blade theories, performance of
fixed-speed and constant tip speed ratio turbines, yaw and pitch control,
breakdown of momentum theory, Prandtl tip loss factor, blade geometry, lift
and drag of aerofoils, stall delay, unsteady flows, ultimate strength analysis
using partial safety factors, fatigue analysis using Marin derating factors
and Minor’s rule rain-flow cycle counting, and solid mechanics of composite
materials.

Use of software analysis tools including Finite Element Analysis (FEA) for
component mode shape and frequency analysis, FEA generation of 6x6 Timoshenko
blade element stiffness matrices, XFoil and XRotor generation of turbine blade
lift-drag polars, NREL FAST v8/OpenFAST whole-turbine time-domain aeroelastic
analysis of Design Load Cases. 3 units.

**555/BME 590. Biomaterials.** This introductory course in Biomaterials will
review the major classes of materials used in medical devices. This includes
issues with synthesis, processing, fabrication and sterilization. Interactions
of proteins and cells with materials, and resulting complications related to
biocompatibility, will be introduced. 3 units.

**555/412. Modern Materials.** Modern Materials examines the underlying
molecular details that give commercially- and industrially-important materials
their specific properties. The course will emphasize polymers, photovoltaics,
magnetic materials, and biomaterials. The study of each material will begin
with an overview of applications, economics, and history of the material.
Starting with the standard characterization methods for each material, we will
work towards an understanding of the fundamental physics and chemistry that
leads to the unique properties of each material. For a final project, students
will select a material that enables an artistic or athletic event and then
relate the molecular structure of this material to its use. Modern Materials
is open to upper-level undergraduates and graduate students. 3 units. See also
CHEM 512.

**555/490. Molecular Modeling of Soft Matter.** Fundamentals and application
of statistical mechanics and molecular simulations towards modeling biological
and soft materials. Students will learn various computational methods
including energy minimization, molecular dynamics simulations, Monte Carlo
simulations, and stochastic dynamics simulations. Students will obtain
valuable hands-on experience in using molecular simulation software,
visualizing molecular systems, and analyzing simulation data for computing
material properties. Prerequisites: Basic programming skills in any one of the
following languages or platforms: C, MATLAB, Fortran, or Python. Basic
undergraduate-level understanding of concepts in mathematics, physics, and
chemistry, especially probability, algebra, geometry, calculus, Taylor’s
expansion, finite differences, molecular bonding, laws of thermodynamics,
ideal gases, and Newton’s laws of motion. 3 units.

**571\. Aerodynamics.** Fundamentals of aerodynamics applied to wings and
bodies in subsonic and supersonic flow. Basic principles of fluid mechanics
analytical methods for aerodynamic analysis. Two-and three-dimensional wing
theory, slender-body theory, lifting surface methods, vortex and wave drag.
Brief introduction to vehicle design, performance and dynamics. Special topics
such as unsteady aerodynamics, vortex wake behavior, and propeller and rotor
aerodynamics. This course is open only to undergraduate seniors and graduate
students. Prerequisites: Mechanical Engineering 336L or equivalent, and
Mathematics 353 or equivalent. 3 units.

**572\. Engineering Acoustics.** Fundamentals of acoustics including sound
generation, propagation, reflection, absorption, and scattering. Emphasis on
basic principles and analytical methods in the description of wave motion and
the characterization of sound fields. Applications include topics from noise
control, sound reproduction, architectural acoustics, and aerodynamic noise.
Occasional classroom or laboratory demonstration. This course is open only to
undergraduate seniors and graduate students. Prerequisites: Mathematics 353 or
equivalent or consent of instructor. 3 units.

**590/BME 590. Engineering Technology in Urology Applications.** This course
provides a unique opportunity to examine various engineering technologies and
applications in urology for the treatment of kidney stone patients and other
benign urinary tract diseases. Selective topics in laser lithotripsy, shock
wave lithotripsy, high-intensity focused ultrasound and ultrasound
neuromodulation will be discussed to highlight the key engineering principles,
advances in technology and techniques associated with imaging-guided therapy.
The goal is to educate engineering students and foster their research interest
and development in interdisciplinary and translational biomedical research,
applicable to various medical fields. The course is designed for students with
diverse backgrounds and research interests, including biophotonics,
solid/fluid and computational mechanics, heat transfer, materials science,
acoustics, ultrasound instrumentation, and engineering design. Laboratory
projects and interaction with clinical doctors will be specifically formulated
to enrich the learning experience and encourage students to collaborate in a
multidisciplinary team environment to create engineering solutions to address
clinical challenges and unmet needs. 3 units.

**627\. Linear System Theory.** This graduate level course focuses on linear
system theory in the time domain. The course introduces the fundamental
mathematics of linear spaces, linear operator theory, and then proceeds with
existence and uniqueness of solutions of differential equations, structural
properties of linear systems, and design of linear controllers. The focus is
on linear time invariant systems in continuous and discrete time. Topics
covered include: Introduction: State-space representation, linearization,
existence and uniqueness of solutions of linear differential equations.
Review: Linear spaces, eigenvalues, eigenvectors, change of basis,
diagonalization, Jordan forms, Cayley-Hamilton theorem, matrix exponential.
Stability: Uniform, asymptotic, and exponential stability, Lyapunov stability
theorems. Controllability and observability: Kalman rank test, PBH test. State
feedback and estimation: Canonical forms, pole placement, observer design.
Optimal control: Riccati equation, Hamiltonian matrix, stability.

Prerequisites: Basic knowledge of linear algebra, differential equations, and
signals and systems. Undergraduates need permission. 3 units. C-L: see Civil
and Environmental Engineering 627

**631\. Intermediate Fluid Mechanics.** A survey of the principal concepts and
equations of fluid mechanics, fluid statics, surface tension, the Eulerian and
Lagrangian description, kinematics, Reynolds transport theorem, the
differential and integral equations of motion, constitutive equations for a
Newtonian fluid, the Navier-Stokes equations, and boundary conditions on
velocity and stress at material interfaces. 3 units.

**632\. Advanced Fluid Mechanics.** Flow of a uniform incompressible viscous
fluid. Exact solutions to the Navier-Stokes equation. Similarity methods.
Irrotational flow theory and its applications. Elements of boundary layer
theory. Prerequisite: Mechanical Engineering 631 or consent of instructor. 3
units.

**639\. Computational Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer.** An exposition of
numerical techniques commonly used for the solution of partial differential
equations encountered in engineering physics. Finite-difference schemes (which
are well-suited for fluid mechanics problems); notions of accuracy,
conservation, consistency, stability, and convergence. Recent applications of
weighted residuals methods (Galerkin), finite-element methods, and grid
generation techniques. Through specific examples, the student is guided to
construct and assess the performance of the numerical scheme selected for the
particular type of transport equation (parabolic, elliptic, or hyperbolic). 3
units.

**647\. Buckling of Engineering Structures.** An introduction to the
underlying concepts of elastic stability and buckling, development of
differential equation and energy approaches, buckling of common engineering
components including link models, struts, frames, plates, and shells.
Consideration will also be given to inelastic behavior, postbuckling, and
design implications. Prerequisite: Civil Engineering 421L(131L) or consent of
instructor. 3 units. C-L: see Civil and Environmental Engineering 647

**671\. Advanced Aerodynamics.** Advanced topics in aerodynamics. Conformal
transformation techniques. Three-dimensional wing theory, optimal span loading
for planar and nonplanar wings. Ground effect and tunnel corrections.
Propeller theory. Slender wing theory and slender body theory, transonic and
supersonic area rules for minimization of wave drag. Numerical methods in
aerodynamics including source panel and vortex lattice methods. Prerequisite:
Mechanical Engineering 571. 3 units.

**672\. Unsteady Aerodynamics.** Analytical and numerical methods for
computing the unsteady aerodynamic behavior of airfoils and wings. Small
disturbance approximation to the full potential equation. Unsteady vortex
dynamics. Kelvin impulse and apparent mass concepts applied to unsteady flows.
Two-dimensional unsteady thin airfoil theory. Time domain and frequency domain
analyses of unsteady flows. Three-dimensional unsteady wing theory.
Introduction to unsteady aerodynamic behavior of turbomachinery. Prerequisite:
Mechanical Engineering 571. 3 units.

**674\. Fundamentals of Shock Wave Lithotripsy.** Introduction to the
engineering concepts and technologies used in shock wave lithotripsy - a
noninvasive ultrasonic treatment modality for kidney stone disease. Shock wave
generation, focusing, and propagation in water and biological tissues will be
discussed, as well as measurement techniques for lithotripter field
characterization and analysis of shock wave-stone-tissue interactions.
Milestone studies on the mechanisms of stone fragmentation and tissue injury
will be reviewed with emphasis on technology improvement. Laboratory projects
are designed to enrich the learning experience of students in developing
essential skills for independent research. 3 units.

**676\. Advanced Acoustics.** Analysis methods in acoustics including wave
generation, propagation, reflection, absorption, and scattering; sound
propagation in a porous material; coupled structure acoustic systems; acoustic
singularities: monopoles, dipoles, quadrupoles; radiation from flat surfaces;
classical radiation and scattering solutions for cylinders and spheres;
Green's functions, Radiation conditions, Modal analysis; sound fields in rooms
and enclosures: energy methods; dissipation in fluid media; introduction to
nonlinear effects. This course is open only to graduate students with some
prior background in acoustics and applied mathematics. Prerequisites:
Mechanical Engineering 572 or equivalent. 3 units.

**711\. Nanotechnology Materials Lab.** This course provides an introduction
to advanced methods for the characterization and fabrication of materials,
nanostructures, and devices. Cleanroom methods to be covered include
lithography, evaporation, and etching. Characterization methods include
electron microscopy, atomic force microscopy, X-ray photoelectron
spectroscopy, and optical spectroscopy. Students will receive an overview of
the techniques in the Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility through
lectures and demonstrations. In the lab section, each student will engage in a
project that focuses on those capabilities that are needed for their research,
and will receive training and certification on that equipment. 3 units. C-L:
Electrical and Computer Engineering 721

**742\. Nonlinear Mechanical Vibration.** A comprehensive treatment of the
role of nonlinearities in engineering dynamics and vibration. Analytical,
numerical, and experimental techniques are developed within a geometrical
framework. Prerequisite: Mechanical Engineering 541 or 544 or equivalent. 3
units.

**758S. Curricular Practical Training.** Curricular Practical Training.
Students gain practical Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
experience by taking a job in industry and writing a report about this
experience. Course requires prior consent from the student's advisor and from
the Director of Graduate Studies and may be repeated with consent of the
advisor and the Director of Graduate Studies. Variable credit.

**775\. Aeroelasticity.** A study of the statics and dynamics of
fluid/structural interaction. Topics covered include static aeroelasticity
(divergence, control surface reversal), dynamic aeroelasticity (flutter, gust
response), unsteady aerodynamics (subsonic, supersonic, and transonic flow),
and a review of the recent literature including nonlinear effects such as
chaotic oscillations. Prerequisite: Mathematics 230 and consent of instructor.
3 units.

**CEE 622.** Fracture Mechanics. Theoretical concepts concerning the fracture
and failure of brittle and ductile materials. Orowan and Griffith approaches
to strength. Determination of stress intensity factors using compliance
method, weight function method, and numerical methods with conservation laws.
Cohesive zone models, fracture toughness, crack growth stability, and
plasticity. Prerequisites: CE 520(201) or instructor consent. 3 units.

**CHEM 548. Solid State Materials Chemistry.** 3 units.

**CHEM 590. Polymer Chemistry.** 3 units.

_Updated November 4, 2021_

## Master's Contacts

### George Delagrammatikas

Professor of the Practice and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5346

__george.delagrammatikas@duke.edu

### Shauntil Gray

Director of Master's Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__shauntil.gray@duke.edu

Contact Admissions

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

