Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Aerodynamics & Aeroelasticity

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Working at the intersection of fluid mechanics, structural mechanics and
dynamics, Duke MEMS faculty are investigating a diverse **range of aerospace
problems**. Using **computational and experimental methods** , our researchers
seek to discover new knowledge of the physics involved to aid in the
development of improved airframes and turbomachinery that are **safer and more
efficient**.

## Research Areas

  * Acoustics
  * Aeroelasticity
  * Aerospace engineering
  * Computational fluid dynamics
  * Nonlinear dynamics and complex systems
  * Structural dynamics
  * Turbomachinery aeromechanics
  * Vibration

## Centers, Initiatives & Facilities

  * Duke Aeroelasticity Research Group
  * GUIde 6 Consortium for Aeroelasticity
  * Duke Anechoic Chamber
  * Duke Subsonic Wind Tunnel

Related Study Opportunities

    

### PhD

Specializations include:

  * Aerospace Engineering

### Master of Science (MS) or Master of Engineering (MEng)

Concentrations include:

  * Energy, Propulsion and Structures for Earth and Space

Graduate Certificates include:

  * Aerospace Research

## Highlights

More MEMS research news

### Designing for the Future of Safe Flight, Energy Generation and National
Security

The sky's the limit for Duke engineers designing the safest, most cost-
efficient aircraft and turbomachinery

### Kielb Receives ASME’s R. Tom Sawyer Award

American Society of Mechanical Engineers bestows highest award for
contributions to gas turbines

### Earl H. Dowell to Receive the 2022 ASME Thomas K. Caughey Dynamics Medal

Dowell is an international leader in computational modeling and
experimentation for aeroelastic systems in which fluids and structure interact

## Associated Faculty

### Donald B. Bliss

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Fluid mechanics, aerodynamics, acoustics, and structural
dynamics

### John Everett Dolbow

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Modeling quasi-static and dynamic fracture of structural
components, the evolution of interfaces with nonlinear constitutive laws, and
developing models for stimulus-responsive hydrogels

### Earl H. Dowell

William Holland Hall Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Aeroelasticity, acoustics, nonlinear dynamics, structural
dynamics, and unsteady aerodynamics.

### Henri P. Gavin

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Structural dynamics, earthquake engineering, seismic
hazard mitigation for building contents, nonlinear dynamics, system
identification, optimal control with application to systems with controllable
damping.

### Kenneth C. Hall

Julian Francis Abele Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Unsteady aerodynamics, structural dynamics, and
aeroelasticity of turbomachinery and aerospace vehicles. Novel approaches to
modeling complex physical phenomena using computational fluid dynamics.
Optimization and sensitivity analysis. Fluid dynamics of animal propulsion.

### Guglielmo Scovazzi

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Finite element methods, computational fluid and solid
mechanics, multiphase porous media flows, computational methods for fluid and
solid materials under extreme load conditions, turbulent flow computations,
instability phenomena.

### Jeffrey P. Thomas

Assistant Research Professor in the Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

### Lawrence N. Virgin

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Study of the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems,
including the investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems
based on a mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion
and the application of recent results from nonlinear dynamical systems…

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

