Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Autonomous Systems

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Duke MEMS researchers are at work on new **control, optimization, learning,
and artificial intelligence (AI) methods** for autonomous dynamical systems
that can make independent intelligent decisions and learn in uncertain,
unstructured, and unpredictable environments. We design autonomous systems
that span **robotics, cyber-physical systems, internet of things, and
medicine.**

## Research Areas

  * Autonomous medical devices and systems
  * Control theory and optimization
  * Cyber-physical systems
  * Human-autonomy systems
  * Machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI)
  * Networked and distributed systems
  * Robotics, autonomous systems, surgical robotics
  * Nonlinear dynamics and systems

## Major Centers & Initiatives

Externally funded efforts in autonomy which Duke leads, or is a partner,
include:

  * US Air Force Office of Scientific Research Center of Excellence for
    Assured Autonomy in Contested Environments
  * Duke Robotics Research Group
  * NSF Research Traineeship Program for the Advancement of Surgical
    Technologies (TAST)

Related Study Opportunities

    

### PhD

Specializations include:

  * Dynamics, Controls & Robotics
  * Mechanics, Design & Computing

### Master of Science (MS) or Master of Engineering (MEng)

Concentrations include:

  * Autonomous, Intelligent Machines & Systems
  * Optimal Design of Physical and Virtual Systems

## Highlights

More MEMS research news

### Cross-Training Graduate Students to Develop Smart Robotic Surgical
Instruments

Duke’s new NSF Research Traineeship Program brings engineers and computer
scientists into the operating room to solve unmet surgical challenges

### Coordinating Complex Behaviors Between Hundreds of Robots

A new approach to designing motion plans for multiple robots grows “trees” in
the search space to solve complex problems in a fraction of the time

### NASA Climbs Aboard with Support for Robot Project

The robot can autonomously place an IV in an astronaut’s arm for crewed space
missions and to improve access to healthcare on Earth.

## Associated Faculty

### Leila Bridgeman

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Robust and optimal control, linear matrix inequalities
(LMIs), model predictive control (MPC), delayed systems, input-output
stability, passivity.

### Daniel Buckland

Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine

### Boyuan Chen

Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Research Interests: Robotics, computer vision, machine learning, AI for
science

### Patrick James Codd

Associate Professor of Neurosurgery

### Mary "Missy" Cummings

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Human-unmanned vehicle interaction, human-autonomous
system collaboration, human-systems engineering, public policy implications of
unmanned vehicles, and the ethical and social impact of technology.

### Henri P. Gavin

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Structural dynamics, earthquake engineering, seismic
hazard mitigation for building contents, nonlinear dynamics, system
identification, optimal control with application to systems with controllable
damping.

### Brian Mann

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nonlinear dynamics and vibration utilizing analytical,
numerical, and experimental techniques. Fundamental investigations of
phenomenon and application areas where dynamical systems theory plays an
important role.

### Xiaoyue Ni

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Flexible electronics, precision measurement, non-
destructive testing, deformation physics of random media, mechanical
metamaterials, robotic materials and smart structures, machine learning

### Miroslav Pajic

Dickinson Family Associate Professor

Research Interests: Design and analysis of autonomous cyber-physical systems
(CPS), and in particular, embedded systems, AI, learning and controls, CPS
security and high-assurance autonomy, with various application domains
including robotics, automotive, and medical systems

### Rebecca Simmons

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

### Lawrence N. Virgin

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Study of the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems,
including the investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems
based on a mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion
and the application of recent results from nonlinear dynamical systems…

### Michael Zavlanos

Yoh Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Control theory, optimization, and learning; in particular,
robotics and autonomous systems, networked and distributed control systems,
and cyber-physical systems.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

