Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Biomechanics & Biomaterials

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Duke MEMS faculty are exploring a deep and rich array of biological phenomena
to unlock discoveries leading to new **bio-inspired materials**. Building on
our discoveries, we are solving **analytical and biomechanical problems with
clinical relevance**.

We work closely with Duke collaborators in biomedical engineering, the natural
sciences, Duke Nicholas School of the Environment and Duke University Medical
Center in numerous research and educational activities.

## Research Areas

  * Acoustofluidics and microfluidics
  * Biomaterials and soft matter
  * Biomechanical engineering
  * Medical device development
  * Nanoscience and nanomedicine
  * Tissue engineering

## Major Centers & Initiatives

We foster strong and growing multidisciplinary connections with faculty across
Duke University and beyond that include:

  * Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering (CBTE)
  * Duke Soft Matter Center
  * Duke Materials Initiative

Related Study Opportunities

    

### PhD

Specializations include:

  * Materials Science & Biomaterials
  * Mechanics, Design & Computing

### Master of Science (MS) or Master of Engineering (MEng)

Concentrations include:

  * Multi-scale, Advanced, and Bio-Inspired Materials

* * *

### Further Options at Duke

**Duke University Program in Materials Science and Engineering**

The program offers a general materials science and engineering (MSE)
curriculum and degree title. Learn more »

## Highlights

More MEMS research news

### Developing Biomaterial Implants to Improve Human Health

Duke materials scientists combine engineering and medicine to treat bone
injury, disease, pain and more

### Cells Dancing to Harmonic Duets Could Enable Personalized Cancer Therapies

Acoustic tweezers manipulate particles and cells with complex sound waves

### Researchers Reveal the Inner Workings of a Viral DNA-Packaging Motor

Trilogy of papers provide insight into a critical step in how some viruses
reproduce

## Associated Faculty

### Wilkins Aquino

Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, finite element methods,
computational inverse problems and their applications in engineering and
biomedicine, scientific computing, computational acoustics and acoustics-
structure interaction, coupled chemo-mechanics (e.g., electrochemistry-
mechanics).

### Gaurav Arya

Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular modeling, molecular simulations, statistical
mechanics, coarse-graining, machine learning, polymer and colloidal physics,
polymer-nanoparticle composites, chromatin biophysics, DNA nanotechnology,
viral DNA packaging, single-molecule force spectroscopy, nanoscale…

### Matthew L Becker

Hugo L. Blomquist Distinguished Professor of Chemistry

Research Interests: Polymer chemistry; bioconjugate chemistry; molecular
imaging and additive manufacturing; materials for bone, soft tissue, neural
and vascular tissue engineering; drug and protein delivery; degradable
materials for flexible electronics

### L. Catherine Brinson

Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, with emphasis on complex
hierarchical materials and polymer based systems, and merging concepts of data
science into materials. Nanoscale and bulk scale experimental
characterization, modeling and simulation of the behavior of materials,
including physics…

### Daniel Buckland

Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine

### Chuan-Hua Chen

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Experimental and theoretical research coupling
physicochemical hydrodynamics with interfacial engineering

### Ashutosh Chilkoti

Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on biomolecular materials and biointerface science
and emphasizes the development of applications that span the range from
bioseparations, biosensors, biomaterials, and targeted drug delivery.

### Patrick James Codd

Associate Professor of Neurosurgery

### Louis Edwin DeFrate

Professor in Orthopaedic Surgery

### Dennis Onyeka Frank-Ito

Associate Professor in Head and Neck Surgery & Communication Sciences

### Ken Gall

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Materials science, mechanical properties, metals and
polymers. Specialties: Shape memory materials, biomaterials, 3D printing.

### Laurens E. Howle

Professor with Tenure in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

### Tony Jun Huang

William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Acoustofluidics, microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, biomedical
micro-electro-mechanical systems (BioMEMS), optofluidics, plasmofluidics.

### Shivanand Lad

Professor of Neurosurgery

### Brian Mann

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nonlinear dynamics and vibration utilizing analytical,
numerical, and experimental techniques. Fundamental investigations of
phenomenon and application areas where dynamical systems theory plays an
important role.

### Piotr E. Marszalek

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Investigating relationships between structural and
mechanical properties of biopolymers (polysaccharides, DNA, proteins), at a
single molecule level.

### David Needham

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Needham’s research and development is nothing if it is not
collaborative. Highlights: Anti-cancer drug delivery inspired by how cancer's
survive and spread due to their consumption of Lipoprotein particles from the
blood-stream (LDLs and VLDLs) hence his approach: Make the drug…

### Xiaoyue Ni

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Flexible electronics, precision measurement, non-
destructive testing, deformation physics of random media, mechanical
metamaterials, robotic materials and smart structures, machine learning

### Christine K. Payne

Yoh Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular mechanisms by which cells interact with
materials, specifically nanoparticles and conducting polymers, with
applications in nanomedicine and environmental exposure

### Amanda Randles

Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences

Research Interests: Biomedical simulation and high-performance computing

### Michael Rubinstein

Aleksandar S. Vesic Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Polymer theory and computer simulations

### Shyni Varghese

Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science and Orthopaedics

Research Interests: Musculoskeletal tissue repair, disease biophysics and
organ-on-a-chip technology

### Benjamin J. Wiley

Professor of Chemistry

### Stefan Zauscher

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nano-mechanical and nano-tribological characterization
(elasticity, friction, adhesion) of materials including organic thin films;
self-assembled monolayers, polymeric gels, and cellulosics; Fabrication of
polymeric nanostructures by scanning probe lithography; Colloidal probe…

### Pei Zhong

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Mechanistic investigation and technology development in
shock wave and laser lithotripsy; Ultrasound-elicited mechanotransduction,
neuromodulation and sonogenetics; HIFU and immunotherapy for cancer treatment;
Acoustic and optical cavitation.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

