Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Computation & Artificial Intelligence

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Cutting across traditional discipline boundaries, our faculty have deep
experience in developing methods of **scientific computing.** They also
specialize in the **application of computational approaches** , including
artificial intelligence, to a wide range of engineering challenges—from
predictive modeling to new materials development to automation and controls.

## Research Areas

  * Computation and AI for materials discovery and design
  * Computational and AI for fluid and solid mechanics
  * Digital materials and manufacturing
  * Finite element methods
  * Molecular dynamics modeling
  * First-principles quantum materials simulation
  * Model predictive control
  * Nonlinear dynamics
  * Scientific computing

## Major Centers & Initiatives

Externally funded research centers and laboratory groups working in this topic
area include:

  * Center for Autonomous Materials Design
  * Automatic - FLOW for Materials Discovery (AFLOW)
  * Materials Informatics for Polymer Nanocomposites (NanoMine)
  * HybriD3 Materials Database
  * NSF Research Training Program AI for Understanding and Designing Materials
    (aiM)
  * Duke Materials Initiative

Related Study Opportunities

    

### PhD

Specializations include:

  * Aerospace Engineering
  * Dynamics, Controls & Robotics
  * Materials Science & Biomaterials
  * Mechanics, Design & Computing
  * Thermal Fluids & Energy

### Master of Science (MS) or Master of Engineering (MEng)

Concentrations include:

  * Autonomous, Intelligent Machines and Systems
  * Optimal Design of Physical and Virtual Systems

## Highlights

More MEMS research news

### Writing New Recipes for High-Performance Materials

Duke materials scientists and engineers deploy AI and other digital tools to
accelerate development of new materials to harvest energy, heal the body and
more

### Strengthened by Chaos, New Super-Hard Materials Will Stir Steel Together

A US Department of Defense project led by Duke will create AI tools to design
recipes for new materials tailored to super-hard, high-temperature
applications

### Filling an AI and Materials Science Training Gap

Duke University awarded $3 million to develop a graduate training program at
the nexus of artificial intelligence and materials science

## Associated Faculty

### Wilkins Aquino

Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, finite element methods,
computational inverse problems and their applications in engineering and
biomedicine, scientific computing, computational acoustics and acoustics-
structure interaction, coupled chemo-mechanics (e.g., electrochemistry-
mechanics).

### Gaurav Arya

Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular modeling, molecular simulations, statistical
mechanics, coarse-graining, machine learning, polymer and colloidal physics,
polymer-nanoparticle composites, chromatin biophysics, DNA nanotechnology,
viral DNA packaging, single-molecule force spectroscopy, nanoscale…

### Volker Blum

Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Computational predictions and understanding of new
materials related to energy and electronics, as well as molecular structure
and spectroscopies, based on the "first principles" of quantum mechanics. Much
of this work is directly connected to ongoing developments of new…

### Leila Bridgeman

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Robust and optimal control, linear matrix inequalities
(LMIs), model predictive control (MPC), delayed systems, input-output
stability, passivity.

### L. Catherine Brinson

Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, with emphasis on complex
hierarchical materials and polymer based systems, and merging concepts of data
science into materials. Nanoscale and bulk scale experimental
characterization, modeling and simulation of the behavior of materials,
including physics…

### Stefano Curtarolo

Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Research Interests: Artificial Intelligence Materials Science; Autonomous
Materials Design; Computational materials science; High-Entropy Disordered
Systems; Materials for Energy Applications; Materials for Aerospace
Applications. Prof. Curtarolo multidisciplinary research makes use of state-
of-the…

### Olivier Delaire

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Olivier Delaire investigates atomic dynamics in materials,
focusing on problems at the interface of Materials Science, Physics and
Chemistry. His research group utilizes a range of experimental and
computational approaches, including neutron and x-ray scattering techniques,…

### John Everett Dolbow

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Modeling quasi-static and dynamic fracture of structural
components, the evolution of interfaces with nonlinear constitutive laws, and
developing models for stimulus-responsive hydrogels

### Earl H. Dowell

William Holland Hall Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Aeroelasticity, acoustics, nonlinear dynamics, structural
dynamics, and unsteady aerodynamics.

### Ken Gall

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Materials science, mechanical properties, metals and
polymers. Specialties: Shape memory materials, biomaterials, 3D printing.

### Johann Guilleminot

Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, mechanics of heterogeneous
materials, molecular dynamics simulations and atomistic-to-continuum coupling,
stochastic solvers, statistical inverse problem and model validation,
stochastic analysis, uncertainty quantification in science and engineering

### Kenneth C. Hall

Julian Francis Abele Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Unsteady aerodynamics, structural dynamics, and
aeroelasticity of turbomachinery and aerospace vehicles. Novel approaches to
modeling complex physical phenomena using computational fluid dynamics.
Optimization and sensitivity analysis. Fluid dynamics of animal propulsion.

### Laurens E. Howle

Professor with Tenure in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

### Genevieve Lipp

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

### Xiaoyue Ni

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Flexible electronics, precision measurement, non-
destructive testing, deformation physics of random media, mechanical
metamaterials, robotic materials and smart structures, machine learning

### Amanda Randles

Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences

Research Interests: Biomedical simulation and high-performance computing

### Michael Rubinstein

Aleksandar S. Vesic Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Polymer theory and computer simulations

### Sophia Santillan

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Thomas Lord Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Engineering education, nonlinear systems, structural
mechanics and numerical methods.

### Guglielmo Scovazzi

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Finite element methods, computational fluid and solid
mechanics, multiphase porous media flows, computational methods for fluid and
solid materials under extreme load conditions, turbulent flow computations,
instability phenomena.

### Thomas P. Witelski

Professor in the Department of Mathematics

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

