Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Energy Systems & Materials

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Duke MEMS faculty are experts in developing new energy materials, improving
energy-related technologies and exploring underlying chemistry and physics.
**The vision: a future with clean and abundant energy.** They are deeply
engaged in developing **new sources of energy** and improving the design of
systems for energy conversion, storage and transport. **New energy materials**
and approaches include photovoltaics, solar fuels, thermoelectrics,
supercapacitors/batteries, efficient lighting and thermofluids. Practical
applications are built upon discoveries in mechanics, thermodynamics,
hydrodynamics, materials science, applied chemistry and physics.

## Research Areas

  * Batteries and energy storage
  * Computational materials discovery and design
  * Constructal law of design
  * Efficient lighting
  * Energy materials
  * Hydrodynamics
  * Solar energy
  * Thermal transport and thermoelectrics
  * Thermofluids for energy
  * Thermodynamics

## Major Centers & Initiatives

Externally funded research centers and laboratory groups working in this topic
area include:

  * HybriD3
  * Duke Energy Initiative
  * Duke Materials Initiative

Related Study Opportunities

    

### PhD

Specializations include:

  * Materials Science & Biomaterials
  * Thermal Fluids & Energy

### Master of Science (MS) or Master of Engineering (MEng)

Concentrations include:

  * Energy, Propulsion, and Structures for Earth and Space

* * *

### Further Options at Duke

**Duke University Program in Materials Science and Engineering**

The program offers a general materials science and engineering (MSE)
curriculum and degree title. Learn more »

## Highlights

More MEMS research news

### Smart Material Switches Between Heating and Cooling in Minutes

Deployed on roofs or facades, passive technology could greatly reduce HVAC
energy consumption in buildings

### Buzz About Thermoelectrics Heats Up With Promising New Magnesium-Based
Materials

Researchers have gained new fundamental insights into two magnesium-based
materials that have the potential to significantly outperform traditional
thermoelectric designs

### Addressing Climate Change with Energy Materials

Duke engineers and materials scientists are discovering and designing new
materials to meet energy demands for a more sustainable future

## Associated Faculty

### Wilkins Aquino

Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, finite element methods,
computational inverse problems and their applications in engineering and
biomedicine, scientific computing, computational acoustics and acoustics-
structure interaction, coupled chemo-mechanics (e.g., electrochemistry-
mechanics).

### Adrian Bejan

J.A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering

### Donald B. Bliss

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Fluid mechanics, aerodynamics, acoustics, and structural
dynamics

### Volker Blum

Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Computational predictions and understanding of new
materials related to energy and electronics, as well as molecular structure
and spectroscopies, based on the "first principles" of quantum mechanics. Much
of this work is directly connected to ongoing developments of new…

### Chuan-Hua Chen

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Experimental and theoretical research coupling
physicochemical hydrodynamics with interfacial engineering

### F. Hadley Cocks

Professor Emeritus in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

### Stefano Curtarolo

Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Research Interests: Artificial Intelligence Materials Science; Autonomous
Materials Design; Computational materials science; High-Entropy Disordered
Systems; Materials for Energy Applications; Materials for Aerospace
Applications. Prof. Curtarolo multidisciplinary research makes use of state-
of-the…

### George Delagrammatikas

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: Engineering Education, Automotive Engineering, Design
Optimization, Thermal Fluid Sciences, Experimental Methods, Prototyping

### Olivier Delaire

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Olivier Delaire investigates atomic dynamics in materials,
focusing on problems at the interface of Materials Science, Physics and
Chemistry. His research group utilizes a range of experimental and
computational approaches, including neutron and x-ray scattering techniques,…

### Linda Franzoni

Professor of the Practice in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

### Jeffrey Glass

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Electronic materials and the associated
devices/instruments improved by these materials, especially electrode
applications in miniature mass spectrometry, energy conversion and storage and
liquid waste disinfection for developing regions. Electrochemical measurements
and…

### Sara Haravifard

William M. Fairbank Assistant Professor of Physics

Research Interests: Exploring novel collective phenomena in quantum materials
by means of neutron and x-ray scattering techniques; Investigating quantum
critical phenomena at extreme environmental conditions of ultra-low
temperature, high magnetic field, and high pressure; Materials by Design:…

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Interfacial transport phenomena and thermodynamics in
energy technology, including phenomena at the micro- and nanoscale.
Thermodynamics aspects of photovoltaics, novel sustainable energy conversion
technologies, and chemical reactions are an essential part of my research. My…

### Laurens E. Howle

Professor with Tenure in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

### Po-Chun Hsu

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Smart multifunctional textiles, camouflage fabrics,
stimuli-responsive polymer, wearable electronics, photon management, radiation
heat transfer, solar desalination and water harvesting, electrochemical
devices, electrospinning and fiber fabrication

### Tony Jun Huang

William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Acoustofluidics, microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, biomedical
micro-electro-mechanical systems (BioMEMS), optofluidics, plasmofluidics.

### Tomasz Hueckel

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, theoretical soil mechanics, rock
mechanics, theory of plasticity, multi-physics processes in geomechanics,
nuclear waste disposal, energy and environmental geomechanics.

### Josiah D. Knight

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, and
dynamics

### Brian Mann

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nonlinear dynamics and vibration utilizing analytical,
numerical, and experimental techniques. Fundamental investigations of
phenomenon and application areas where dynamical systems theory plays an
important role.

### David Mitzi

Simon Family Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Making emerging photovoltaic materials more effective,
cost-efficient and competitive for the energy market.

### Edward J. Shaughnessy

Professor Emeritus in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

### Rebecca Simmons

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

### Walter Neal Simmons

Gendell Family Professor of the Practice

### Benjamin J. Wiley

Professor of Chemistry

### Pei Zhong

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Mechanistic investigation and technology development in
shock wave and laser lithotripsy; Ultrasound-elicited mechanotransduction,
neuromodulation and sonogenetics; HIFU and immunotherapy for cancer treatment;
Acoustic and optical cavitation.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

