Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Research Facilities & Instrumentation

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Duke MEMS provides faculty and students with state-of-the-art fabricating and
testing technologies.

Through Duke's shared resource SMIF, our researchers have access to advanced
cleanroom fabrication, characterization and imaging facilities.

## Fabrication

3D Systems ProX DMP320

    

**Location:** The Foundry, Gross Hall

**Contact:** Patrick McGuire patrick.mcguire@duke.edu

**Description:**

The 3D Systems ProX DMP320 machine is a high quality direct metal printing
machine. It is currently set up to print medical-grade titanium in a 275x275x
420mm build area, with a layer-by-layer additive powder melting process by
laser.

  * Demonstration video

M1 Additive Printer

    

**Location:** Polymer Printing Lab, Fitzpatrick Center (FCIEMAS)

****Contact:**** Eric Stach eric.stach@duke.edu

**Description:**

The M1 by Carbon 3d is an additive printer that uses several different
polymers. Its innovative process produces parts with material properties and
finish similar to injection molding. The M1 prints using UV-curable resins
which include: prototyping (similar to SLA with custom coloring), rigid
polyurethane, flexible polyurethane, elastomeric polyurethane, and cyanate
ester.

  * Demonstration video

Stratasys Dimension 1200es and Fortus 250 Printers

    

**Location:** MEMS Prototype and Instrumentation Lab, Hudson Hall

******Contact:****** Eric Stach eric.stach@duke.edu

**Description:**

The Stratasys Dimension 1200es and Fortus 250 printers are FDM (Fused
Deposition Modeling) style printers located in the MEMS Prototype and
Instrumentation Lab in Hudson Hall. Reliable and repeatable technology builds
parts out of ABS plastic in a 10x10x10-inch build area to a minimum resolution
of 0.007 inch.

## Testing

Bose ELF 3220

    

**Location:** Joint Mechanical Testing Laboratory, Medical Sciences Research
Building

**Contact:** Patrick McGuire patrick.mcguire@duke.edu or  
Eric Stach eric.stach@duke.edu

**Description:**

The Bose ELF 3220 extended stroke materials testing machine has a frictionless
linear actuator suitable for high resolution, low-force testing, and an
auxiliary long-stroke actuator mountable in the movable crosshead. A hot/cold
chamber may be mounted on the machine for testing in controlled temperature
environments.

Test Resources 830LE-AT

    

**Location:** Joint Mechanical Testing Laboratory, Medical Sciences Research
Building

****Contact:**** Patrick McGuire patrick.mcguire@duke.edu or  
Eric Stach eric.stach@duke.edu

**Description:**

The Test Resources 830LE-AT is a biaxial fatigue-rated electrodynamic
materials testing machine with an axial loading capacity of +/- 50 kN and
torsion capacity of 280 N-m. A complete range of accessories includes a
temperature chamber allowing testing at temperatures ranging from -155 °C to
425° C, a temperature-controlled biobath, a wide range of grips and fixtures,
and a digital video extensometer system.

Instron 1321

    

**Location:** Joint Mechanical Testing Laboratory, Research Park 4

****Contact:**** Patrick McGuire patrick.mcguire@duke.edu or  
Eric Stach eric.stach@duke.edu

**Description:**

The Instron 1321 is a servohydraulic materials testing machine with tension
and compression capacity of +/- 5kN. A broad range of testing fixtures allows
for standard materials testing and specialized biomechanical testing of bones,
joints, and soft tissues.

Anechoic Chamber

    

**Location:** Room 029J, Hudson Hall

**Contact:** donald.bliss@duke.edu.

**Description:**

The Duke Anechoic Chamber offers an acoustically isolated testing facility
with highly absorptive walls for students and faculty to use. The non-echoing
properties of the chamber allow for direct field measurements, simulating
free-space and thus minimizing the reverberant field found in real-world
environments.

Dimensions: 9 x 12.5 x 7.5 feet.

Sound absorption is achieved through the soft foam wedges and thick
dissipative foam located along the chamber wall. Incident acoustic waves
become trapped within the porous foam structure and converted into small
amounts of heat that then dissipate behind a blanket of condensed fiberglass.
The absorption process is most efficient at higher frequencies while
experiments have shown near anechoic properties down to around 300 Hz.

The chamber at Duke is fully anechoic (absorptive floor) and features a mesh
floor grating for supporting equipment. Threaded rods are conveniently mounted
onto the ceiling for hanging sound sources that can rotate through a stepper
motor adapter, allowing for the testing of speaker directivity patterns.
Electrical outlets are located on all four side walls along with a small
window for feeding cables outside the room.

Subsonic Wind Tunnel

    

**Location:** Basement Level, Hudson Hall Annex

**Contact:** Patrick McGuire patrick.mcguire@duke.edu

**Description:**

The Duke Subsonic Wind Tunnel is an experimental apparatus used primarily for
aerospace engineering research.

Dimensions: 20 feet tall, with a footprint of 40 feet by 10 feet. The test
section of the wind tunnel, in which experimental models can be placed, is
about 50 inches long and has a cross section of 20 inches by 28 inches. The
air flow through the test section is driven by a 75 hp electric motor and can
reach air speeds up to 60 m/s. A gust response excitation system is available.

Membrane Ground Vibration

Data acquisition equipment: Air speed is measured by a pitot static tube and
by a hot wire anemometer calibrated specifically for the range of air speed
for this wind tunnel. Signals from the two instruments are collected by a
National Instruments DAQ system, and read by LabVIEW software on the wind
tunnel’s dedicated computer. In addition, the DAQ system has one 8-channel
current input module, three 8-channel voltage input modules, and one 8-channel
voltage output module.

Instruments for measuring experimental model motion include teardrop
accelerometers, a laser velocity meter, pressure sensors and strain gauges.
There is also a stand-alone spectrum analyzer that can acquire data and
compute the frequency content and transfer function using onboard software.

Interior view

Projects have included aeroelastic response of morphing wing aircraft,
determining flutter boundaries for flexible membranes with various boundary
conditions, unsteady aerodynamic and buffet studies of airfoils at very high
angles of attack, and experimental demonstration of limit cycle oscillation
behavior for an airfoil supported by springs with a novel geometrically
nonlinear design.

More information at aeroelasticity.pratt.duke.edu »

## Cleanroom Fabrication, Characterization and Imaging

Duke Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF)

    

**Location:** Room 1593, Fitzpatrick Center

**Website:** smif.pratt.duke.edu

**Description:** An NSF-funded part of the National Nanotechnology
Coordinating Infrastructure. The facility includes a cleanroom and
instrumentation for electron-beam lithography, electron microscopy, MicroCT
imaging, X-ray characterization and optical spectroscopy.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

