Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Soft Matter & Nanoscale Materials

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Faculty in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
conduct research focused on computational discovery of new materials, the
creation of materials on the nanoscale, and the nanoscale investigation of
physical phenomena and properties of polymers, soft-wet, and nanomaterials.

## Research Areas

  * Bio-inspired materials
  * Nanoscale materials
  * Nanomechanics
  * Nanocomposites
  * Nanotribology
  * Polymers
  * Proteins
  * Soft matter
  * Soft-wet materials

## Major Centers & Initiatives

We foster strong and growing multidisciplinary connections with faculty across
Duke University and beyond that include:

  * Duke Materials Initiative
  * Duke Soft Matter Center
  * Research Triangle Nanotechnology Network
  * Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering (CBTE)
  * Center for the Chemistry of Molecularly Optimized Networks (MONET)

Related Study Opportunities

    

### PhD

Specializations include:

  * Materials Science & Biomaterials

### Master of Science (MS) or Master of Engineering (MEng)

Concentrations include:

  * Multi-scale, Advanced, and Bio-Inspired Materials

* * *

### Further Options at Duke

**Duke University Program in Materials Science and Engineering**

The program offers a general materials science and engineering (MSE)
curriculum and degree title. Learn more »

## Highlights

More MEMS research news

### NSF Creates Polymer Chemistry Optimization Center at Duke for Future
Materials

The National Science Foundation has awarded a five-year, $20 million grant to
Duke University researchers to explore and optimize the chemical structure and
physical properties of individual molecules in a polymer network.

### Innovative Textile Vents to Release Heat When You Sweat

Moisture opens the vents, rather than electronics

### Predicting Forces between Oddly Shaped Nanoparticles

Simplified model of van der Waals forces will allow previously impossible
simulations of how faceted nanoparticles self-assemble into larger structures

## Associated Faculty

### Gaurav Arya

Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular modeling, molecular simulations, statistical
mechanics, coarse-graining, machine learning, polymer and colloidal physics,
polymer-nanoparticle composites, chromatin biophysics, DNA nanotechnology,
viral DNA packaging, single-molecule force spectroscopy, nanoscale…

### Matthew L Becker

Hugo L. Blomquist Distinguished Professor of Chemistry

Research Interests: Polymer chemistry; bioconjugate chemistry; molecular
imaging and additive manufacturing; materials for bone, soft tissue, neural
and vascular tissue engineering; drug and protein delivery; degradable
materials for flexible electronics

### L. Catherine Brinson

Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, with emphasis on complex
hierarchical materials and polymer based systems, and merging concepts of data
science into materials. Nanoscale and bulk scale experimental
characterization, modeling and simulation of the behavior of materials,
including physics…

### Ashutosh Chilkoti

Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on biomolecular materials and biointerface science
and emphasizes the development of applications that span the range from
bioseparations, biosensors, biomaterials, and targeted drug delivery.

### Olivier Delaire

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Olivier Delaire investigates atomic dynamics in materials,
focusing on problems at the interface of Materials Science, Physics and
Chemistry. His research group utilizes a range of experimental and
computational approaches, including neutron and x-ray scattering techniques,…

### Dennis Onyeka Frank-Ito

Associate Professor in Head and Neck Surgery & Communication Sciences

### Ken Gall

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Materials science, mechanical properties, metals and
polymers. Specialties: Shape memory materials, biomaterials, 3D printing.

### Po-Chun Hsu

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Smart multifunctional textiles, camouflage fabrics,
stimuli-responsive polymer, wearable electronics, photon management, radiation
heat transfer, solar desalination and water harvesting, electrochemical
devices, electrospinning and fiber fabrication

### Shivanand Lad

Professor of Neurosurgery

### Piotr E. Marszalek

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Investigating relationships between structural and
mechanical properties of biopolymers (polysaccharides, DNA, proteins), at a
single molecule level.

### David Needham

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Needham’s research and development is nothing if it is not
collaborative. Highlights: Anti-cancer drug delivery inspired by how cancer's
survive and spread due to their consumption of Lipoprotein particles from the
blood-stream (LDLs and VLDLs) hence his approach: Make the drug…

### Xiaoyue Ni

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Flexible electronics, precision measurement, non-
destructive testing, deformation physics of random media, mechanical
metamaterials, robotic materials and smart structures, machine learning

### Christine K. Payne

Yoh Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular mechanisms by which cells interact with
materials, specifically nanoparticles and conducting polymers, with
applications in nanomedicine and environmental exposure

### Michael Rubinstein

Aleksandar S. Vesic Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Polymer theory and computer simulations

### Shyni Varghese

Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science and Orthopaedics

Research Interests: Musculoskeletal tissue repair, disease biophysics and
organ-on-a-chip technology

### Benjamin J. Wiley

Professor of Chemistry

### Stefan Zauscher

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nano-mechanical and nano-tribological characterization
(elasticity, friction, adhesion) of materials including organic thin films;
self-assembled monolayers, polymeric gels, and cellulosics; Fabrication of
polymeric nanostructures by scanning probe lithography; Colloidal probe…

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

