

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Procedures for Package Delivery

_March 24, 2020_

Procurement Services has established a new process for package delivery due to
controlled access to buildings on campus. Below are details for how this
process will work for **non-patient care operations only**. This process does
not impact any of the procedures related to orders or receiving for patient
care operations.

To support the Duke campus during this time:

  * A central receiving location has been set up by the Procurement Office at
    the Golden Warehouse.
  * Federal Express, UPS, and other carriers have been informed and will be
    coordinating deliveries in accordance with the plan below.
  * The Golden Warehouse is staffed from 8 am-4:30 pm, Monday-Friday, and will
    be receiving and storing shipments until buildings are opened up.
  * Please follow the procedures below to have your package retrieved.

**Beginning Wednesday, March 25** , the following procedures will be in place
for all Duke University building shipments except for those labs conducting
essential research. Prior to March 25, vendors will attempt to deliver to all
locations. If they are unable to access the building they will then deliver to
the Golden Drive Warehouse.

For labs conducting essential research or for specific offices identified by
individual schools, each school will gather the necessary contact information
to post at the loading docks so that the normal deliveries can continue.

  * Transportation vendor will deliver all shipments to Golden Warehouse and
    will be held until later retrieval.
  * Packages will NOT be returned to vendor/sender.

**What you can expect from the receiving team at Golden Warehouse**

  1. Upon receipt of the shipment at Golden, the receiving team will contact the owner first attempt by phone then by email of the shipment to inform them of the receipt and confirm if it should remain in storage. If it is an urgent item, pick up or delivery will be arranged. If the owner is unable to be contacted, the shipment will be logged and remain in storage
  2. If shipment references a Purchase Order in SAP, the receiving team will document receipt in the receiving note section within the Purchase Order.
  3. Shipments will be logged in and assigned to a location within Golden Warehouse for easy retrieval.
  4. Upon reopening of the Duke Campus, all shipments that have been stored will be delivered to the original/intended ship to locations.

**How do you contact the receiving team at Golden Warehouse?**

Should you need to inquire about a package that you have confirmed has arrived
at the Golden Warehouse via the tracking number, please follow the steps
below:

  1. Email deliveryinquiries@duke.edu indicating the Purchase Order number (if available), tracking #, Vendor, departmental contact information/recipient’s name, the carrier if you know it, and the building address to which it was originally intended to ship.

These identifiers will assist in timely location of the item.

  2. Once the inquiry has been made, the package will be located and the receiving team will inform you of picking up / delivery details.

Please do not go to the warehouse without having made arrangements for a pick-
up.

**Special Instructions for Research Labs**

**Gases**

If you require Air Gas deliveries, place the order as normal and deliveries
will happen as they normally due, if delivery location is locked, there will
need to be someone there to let them in. If you have questions or need
assistance please contact Ed Sharpe researchprocurement@duke.edu.

**Dry Ice**

VWR will move to consolidate Dry Ice pick-up to one central location effective
Monday, March 23, and until labs reopen — with the exception of labs
conducting essential research.

Dry Ice will be housed in the VWR storeroom in A16 LSRC building.

To have your Dry Ice delivery continue to be made to your lab or your building
dock, email Nathan_Spain@vwr.com.

To cancel or hold your Dry Ice delivery email du.orders@airgas.com

**Animals and Animal Supplies**

Deliveries will take place as usual. DLAR will be open to maintain care of the
animals.

Instructions on animal care during this time period are located at
https://research.duke.edu/coronavirus-research-FAQ

**VWR**

The VWR storeroom in LSRC will be closed, except for appointments, see below.
Below are the details on how VWR will deliver to essential labs starting
Wednesday March 25:

  * Beginning immediately, VWR drivers will require a signature for all
    deliveries, ensuring social distancing to obtain the signature.
  * If no one is present for the initial delivery attempt, VWR will return the
    product to the VWR Campus Storeroom in A16 LSRC Bldg and contact the
    person who ordered and let them know that delivery was unsuccessful and
    options
  * VWR will hold the product in the storeroom for 48 hours, during which time
    customers can pick up the product by appointment. To arrange an
    appointment to pick up product from the storeroom or to have it delivered
    from the offsite facility, please email Matthew.Gronenthal@vwr.com
  * After the 48 hour period, the product will be transferred to an offsite
    warehouse for safekeeping until the lab is ready to receive.
  * For any other questions regarding deliveries, please contact
    Nathan_Spain@vwr.com, or any other VWR representative.

**Refrigerated Items**

Refrigerated items delivered to Golden Warehouse will be kept in a
refrigerator/freezer; however, this is for short-term only. All chilled items
delivered are considered urgent, and the lab needs to make arrangements to
receive them quickly.

**Services for Equipment Failures**

Lab personnel should contact the vendor and coordinate an appointment at the
lab.

**Equipment Deliveries should all be redirected as follows:**

100 Golden Drive  
Durham, NC 27705

**School specific contact if there are issues:** If you have essential
research needs please work with the contact person listed below so that
special arrangements can be made:

  * Engineering: Mitchell Vann Mitchell.vann@duke.edu 919-452-6221–cell,
    919-660-5317–office

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

