

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Update: Lab Operations & Equipment Use

_March 20, 2020_

Dear Duke Engineering graduate students, postdoctoral associates and research
staff,

Many of you are involved in vital research that is adversely affected by
efforts to contain COVID-19. However, the health and safety of the members of
our community are paramount.

Limited activity may be needed to prevent loss of sensitive items or maintain
animals, and that must be approved by the plans sent to the Senior Associate
Dean for Research. Other than that limited time within our facilities, the
expectation is that all Pratt personnel are working remotely.

**Even if your faculty mentor or research PI has listed you as essential
personnel, your efforts to perform any work in Duke facilities is voluntary
and you cannot be forced to maintain laboratory research if you are concerned
that you are placed at risk of disease**. If there are disagreements, graduate
students are encouraged to speak to the department DGS or DMS, whose role is
to advocate for students. Postdocs are encouraged to reach out to their chair,
departmental HR administrator, departmental faculty-postdoc liaison, or the
Office of Postdoctoral Services concerning any disagreements.

We have also received questions about lab members taking research equipment
home in order to continue working remotely. **No laboratory equipment may be
removed from Pratt facilities or purchased for use at home.** If you would
like to request an exception, please contact me at george.truskey@duke.edu.

I also call your attention to recently updated guidance and reminders related
on laboratory operations changes from the Duke University Office of Research.
The information is posted at **research.duke.edu/coronavirus-research-FAQ**
**.**

If you have questions or need assistance, please email **pratt-
research@duke.edu**.

Thank you for your continued efforts to safeguard the health of our community.

_George A. Truskey_  
 _Senior Associate Dean_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

