

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Services and Information for Pratt Master's Students

_March 17, 2020_

Dear Pratt Master’s Students:

In these challenging and unprecedented times, the Pratt Master’s Programs team
wants to make sure you know we are here for you, and that we have adapted our
services to continue to support your success as a Duke Engineering student.

In this message, we summarize some key information about how to access student
services during this time. The situation is changing rapidly, and information
is being updated on a regular basis. We **strongly encourage you to bookmark
the websites below** and check these sites first for answers to any questions
you may have. Please also make sure you read all emails from Duke University,
Pratt, and your department or program.

  * **Duke Coronavirus Response—**coronavirus.duke.edu  
 _Includes all university-wide messages and important links to resources_

  * **COVID-19 Information for the Pratt Community—**pratt.duke.edu/covid19

  * **Duke Graduate School** —gradschool.duke.edu/student-life/coronavirus-
    information  
 _Information Specific to MS students_

  * **Keep Learning @ Duke—**coronavirus.duke.edu  
 _Student resources and FAQS, including an **“International Students”**
section focused on visa issues and **“Student Health and Wellness”** focused
on health services resources, including mental health support._

  * **International House—**studentaffairs.duke.edu/ihouse  
 _You can schedule remote appointments with IHouse staff each business day to
discuss questions and concerns you have as an international student._

  * **Emergency Food—**dukegpsc.org/resources-for-students/community-pantry  
 _The GPSC Community Pantry is fully operational. Precautions have been set
into place—the number of people gathered in the pantry at one time is
controlled, surfaces are regularly sanitized, and all visitors are required to
wash their hands upon arrival. There is no limit to the items you may take
during walk-in hours (Wednesday 5:00-8:00 p.m. and Saturday 3:00-6:00 p.m.).
If you have further questions, please contactgpscpantry@gmail.com_

  * **Graduate and Professional Student Council (GPSC)
    Resources—**dukegpsc.org/resources-for-students  
 _GPSC has many resources available to you, including an Emergency Travel Fund
and Lawyer Assistance program._

If you are unable to find the answers to any questions you may have or if you
have additional concerns, we encourage you to reach out to the Graduate
Student Programs and Services team at pratt-masters-studentservices@duke.edu.

For visa and travel-related questions, please reach out to Duke Visa Services
at visahelp@mc.duke.edu. ****

Be assured that the student services we provide will continue, although in
altered format, and we’ve worked hard to make sure you have the best
experience possible.

Here are some important details:

## Career Services for Engineering Master's Students

  * Online **Career** ******Coaching appointments** are available in
    CareerConnections
  * Daily online **Job and Internship Search Office Hours** are available with
    no appointment required; visit this dashboard to see upcoming times and
    retrieve the link
  * **Search Work Teams** provide an opportunity for students to execute their
    search with a team focused on accountability, support, and metrics. Apply
    to join a team online here and you will be contacted as space is
    available.
  * Online resources custom-designed for Engineering Master's students are
    available

## Pratt Graduate Communications Center (GCC) Appointments

  * All Graduate Communications Center appointments will now be held online
    only
  * To attend your GCC appointment, please log onto the WCO scheduling system
    a few minutes before your appointment and click on your scheduled
    appointment.
  * You will see the words "START OR JOIN ONLINE CONSULTATION" in red in the
    appointment window. Click this link. You may need to allow the use of your
    computer's microphone and camera
  * The WCO scheduling system allows for video conferencing, chat, and
    synchronous document editing and commenting between the student and the
    consultant. Students can import documents they would like to work on as
    needed
  * If you have any questions about this online functionality or if you have
    difficulty accessing your appointment, please email us at gcc-
    pratt@duke.edu

In closing, we want to remind you of a few key things to help keep you and our
community members as safe and healthy as possible.

  * You should not be coming to campus.
  * Hold any team meetings using online collaboration tools like Zoom
  * Refrain from hosting or participating in gatherings off campus
  * Follow current recommendations, including washing your hands often with
    soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds; avoiding touching your eyes,
    nose, and mouth; coughing/sneezing into a tissue or your sleeve; avoiding
    close contact with those who are sick; and staying home when you are sick
  * Practice “social distancing” as a way to reduce exposure, slow the spread,
    and minimize transmission of contagious diseases. Maintain at least a six-
    foot distance, avoid shaking hands and close physical contact, and stay
    away from public places whenever possible
  * Be there for each other—virtually. Set up informal online chats, use
    social media to connect, and reach out to friends who may feel vulnerable.
    Be kind and flexible with one another. These are tough times—we are
    stronger together

Again, we know this is a very difficult time, and we are absolutely here for
you. We don’t have all the answers, and information is changing rapidly.
Please check the sites above regularly for the most up-to-date information.
And if there is anything we can do to support you, please do not hesitate to
reach out to us at pratt-masters-studentservices@duke.edu.

Best regards,

_Deb Wojcik_  
 _Director of Graduate Student Programs & Services, on behalf of the
Engineering Master’s Program_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

