Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Faculty

Filter by Research Area

All Faculty

Aerodynamics & Aeroelasticity

Autonomous Systems

Biomechanics & Biomaterials

Computation & Artificial Intelligence

Energy Systems & Materials

Soft Matter & Nanoscale Materials

## Donald M. Alstadt Chair

### L. Catherine Brinson

Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, with emphasis on complex
hierarchical materials and polymer based systems, and merging concepts of data
science into materials. Nanoscale and bulk scale experimental
characterization, modeling and simulation of the behavior of materials,
including physics…

## Associate Department Chair for Faculty Affairs

### Stefan Zauscher

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nano-mechanical and nano-tribological characterization
(elasticity, friction, adhesion) of materials including organic thin films;
self-assembled monolayers, polymeric gels, and cellulosics; Fabrication of
polymeric nanostructures by scanning probe lithography; Colloidal probe…

## Associate Department Chair for Operations

### George Delagrammatikas

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: Engineering Education, Automotive Engineering, Design
Optimization, Thermal Fluid Sciences, Experimental Methods, Prototyping

## Primary Faculty

### Wilkins Aquino

Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, finite element methods,
computational inverse problems and their applications in engineering and
biomedicine, scientific computing, computational acoustics and acoustics-
structure interaction, coupled chemo-mechanics (e.g., electrochemistry-
mechanics).

### Gaurav Arya

Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular modeling, molecular simulations, statistical
mechanics, coarse-graining, machine learning, polymer and colloidal physics,
polymer-nanoparticle composites, chromatin biophysics, DNA nanotechnology,
viral DNA packaging, single-molecule force spectroscopy, nanoscale…

### Matthew L Becker

Hugo L. Blomquist Distinguished Professor of Chemistry

Research Interests: Polymer chemistry; bioconjugate chemistry; molecular
imaging and additive manufacturing; materials for bone, soft tissue, neural
and vascular tissue engineering; drug and protein delivery; degradable
materials for flexible electronics

### Adrian Bejan

J.A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering

### Donald B. Bliss

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Fluid mechanics, aerodynamics, acoustics, and structural
dynamics

### Volker Blum

Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Computational predictions and understanding of new
materials related to energy and electronics, as well as molecular structure
and spectroscopies, based on the "first principles" of quantum mechanics. Much
of this work is directly connected to ongoing developments of new…

### Leila Bridgeman

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Robust and optimal control, linear matrix inequalities
(LMIs), model predictive control (MPC), delayed systems, input-output
stability, passivity.

### Boyuan Chen

Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Research Interests: Robotics, computer vision, machine learning, AI for
science

### Chuan-Hua Chen

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Experimental and theoretical research coupling
physicochemical hydrodynamics with interfacial engineering

### Stefano Curtarolo

Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Research Interests: Artificial Intelligence Materials Science; Autonomous
Materials Design; Computational materials science; High-Entropy Disordered
Systems; Materials for Energy Applications; Materials for Aerospace
Applications. Prof. Curtarolo multidisciplinary research makes use of state-
of-the…

### Olivier Delaire

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Olivier Delaire investigates atomic dynamics in materials,
focusing on problems at the interface of Materials Science, Physics and
Chemistry. His research group utilizes a range of experimental and
computational approaches, including neutron and x-ray scattering techniques,…

### John Everett Dolbow

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Modeling quasi-static and dynamic fracture of structural
components, the evolution of interfaces with nonlinear constitutive laws, and
developing models for stimulus-responsive hydrogels

### Earl H. Dowell

William Holland Hall Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Aeroelasticity, acoustics, nonlinear dynamics, structural
dynamics, and unsteady aerodynamics.

### Linda Franzoni

Professor of the Practice in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

### Ken Gall

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Materials science, mechanical properties, metals and
polymers. Specialties: Shape memory materials, biomaterials, 3D printing.

### Kenneth C. Hall

Julian Francis Abele Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Unsteady aerodynamics, structural dynamics, and
aeroelasticity of turbomachinery and aerospace vehicles. Novel approaches to
modeling complex physical phenomena using computational fluid dynamics.
Optimization and sensitivity analysis. Fluid dynamics of animal propulsion.

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Interfacial transport phenomena and thermodynamics in
energy technology, including phenomena at the micro- and nanoscale.
Thermodynamics aspects of photovoltaics, novel sustainable energy conversion
technologies, and chemical reactions are an essential part of my research. My…

### Laurens E. Howle

Professor with Tenure in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

### Tony Jun Huang

William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Acoustofluidics, microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, biomedical
micro-electro-mechanical systems (BioMEMS), optofluidics, plasmofluidics.

### Josiah D. Knight

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, and
dynamics

### Genevieve Lipp

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

### Brian Mann

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nonlinear dynamics and vibration utilizing analytical,
numerical, and experimental techniques. Fundamental investigations of
phenomenon and application areas where dynamical systems theory plays an
important role.

### Piotr E. Marszalek

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Investigating relationships between structural and
mechanical properties of biopolymers (polysaccharides, DNA, proteins), at a
single molecule level.

### David Mitzi

Simon Family Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Making emerging photovoltaic materials more effective,
cost-efficient and competitive for the energy market.

### David Needham

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Needham’s research and development is nothing if it is not
collaborative. Highlights: Anti-cancer drug delivery inspired by how cancer's
survive and spread due to their consumption of Lipoprotein particles from the
blood-stream (LDLs and VLDLs) hence his approach: Make the drug…

### Xiaoyue Ni

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Flexible electronics, precision measurement, non-
destructive testing, deformation physics of random media, mechanical
metamaterials, robotic materials and smart structures, machine learning

### Siobhan Rigby Oca

Assistant Director for Robotics and Autonomy in the Thomas Lord Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

### Christine K. Payne

Yoh Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular mechanisms by which cells interact with
materials, specifically nanoparticles and conducting polymers, with
applications in nanomedicine and environmental exposure

### Michael Rubinstein

Aleksandar S. Vesic Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Polymer theory and computer simulations

### Sophia Santillan

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Thomas Lord Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Engineering education, nonlinear systems, structural
mechanics and numerical methods.

### Rebecca Simmons

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

### Walter Neal Simmons

Gendell Family Professor of the Practice

### Shyni Varghese

Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science and Orthopaedics

Research Interests: Musculoskeletal tissue repair, disease biophysics and
organ-on-a-chip technology

### Lawrence N. Virgin

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Study of the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems,
including the investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems
based on a mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion
and the application of recent results from nonlinear dynamical systems…

### Michael Zavlanos

Yoh Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Control theory, optimization, and learning; in particular,
robotics and autonomous systems, networked and distributed control systems,
and cyber-physical systems.

### Pei Zhong

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Mechanistic investigation and technology development in
shock wave and laser lithotripsy; Ultrasound-elicited mechanotransduction,
neuromodulation and sonogenetics; HIFU and immunotherapy for cancer treatment;
Acoustic and optical cavitation.

## Secondary Faculty

### Cameron R. Bass

Associate Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biomechanics of blast, blunt and ballistic trauma and
pediatric trauma. His research focuses on injury risk from microscale to
macroscale for the head, neck, thorax and extremities.

### Daniel Buckland

Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine

### Ashutosh Chilkoti

Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on biomolecular materials and biointerface science
and emphasizes the development of applications that span the range from
bioseparations, biosensors, biomaterials, and targeted drug delivery.

### Patrick James Codd

Associate Professor of Neurosurgery

### Mary "Missy" Cummings

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Human-unmanned vehicle interaction, human-autonomous
system collaboration, human-systems engineering, public policy implications of
unmanned vehicles, and the ethical and social impact of technology.

### Louis Edwin DeFrate

Professor in Orthopaedic Surgery

### Dennis Onyeka Frank-Ito

Associate Professor in Head and Neck Surgery & Communication Sciences

### Henri P. Gavin

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Structural dynamics, earthquake engineering, seismic
hazard mitigation for building contents, nonlinear dynamics, system
identification, optimal control with application to systems with controllable
damping.

### Jeffrey Glass

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Electronic materials and the associated
devices/instruments improved by these materials, especially electrode
applications in miniature mass spectrometry, energy conversion and storage and
liquid waste disinfection for developing regions. Electrochemical measurements
and…

### Johann Guilleminot

Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, mechanics of heterogeneous
materials, molecular dynamics simulations and atomistic-to-continuum coupling,
stochastic solvers, statistical inverse problem and model validation,
stochastic analysis, uncertainty quantification in science and engineering

### Michael Richard Gustafson II

Associate Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computational methods for image analysis and information
extraction, discrete event simulations, curriculum development and deployment

### Sara Haravifard

William M. Fairbank Assistant Professor of Physics

Research Interests: Exploring novel collective phenomena in quantum materials
by means of neutron and x-ray scattering techniques; Investigating quantum
critical phenomena at extreme environmental conditions of ultra-low
temperature, high magnetic field, and high pressure; Materials by Design:…

### Tomasz Hueckel

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, theoretical soil mechanics, rock
mechanics, theory of plasticity, multi-physics processes in geomechanics,
nuclear waste disposal, energy and environmental geomechanics.

### Akhenaton-Andrew Dhafir Jones

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Biofilms, cardiovascular infections, infectious diseases,
biomaterials, antibiotics, porous media flows, fate and transport of
nanomaterials in biofilms, water quality sensors, environmental systems
analysis, environmental equity, environmental justice

### Shivanand Lad

Professor of Neurosurgery

### Miroslav Pajic

Dickinson Family Associate Professor

Research Interests: Design and analysis of autonomous cyber-physical systems
(CPS), and in particular, embedded systems, AI, learning and controls, CPS
security and high-assurance autonomy, with various application domains
including robotics, automotive, and medical systems

### Amanda Randles

Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences

Research Interests: Biomedical simulation and high-performance computing

### Guglielmo Scovazzi

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Finite element methods, computational fluid and solid
mechanics, multiphase porous media flows, computational methods for fluid and
solid materials under extreme load conditions, turbulent flow computations,
instability phenomena.

### Adrienne Stiff-Roberts

Jeffrey N. Vinik Professor

Research Interests: Thin-film deposition, MAPLE, hybrid perovskites, hybrid
nanocomposites, organic thin films

### Manolis Veveakis

Associate Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and applied mechanics, Geomechanics,
Irreversible Thermodynamics. Emphasis on the multiphysical modelling of
plasticity of solids, solid-fluid interactions, friction laws and rheology of
geomaterials

### Benjamin J. Wiley

Professor of Chemistry

### Thomas P. Witelski

Professor in the Department of Mathematics

### Sabino Zani Jr.

Associate Professor of Surgery

## Research Faculty

### Michael J Mehl

Assistant Research Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

### Francis Rose

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

### Jeffrey P. Thomas

Assistant Research Professor in the Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

## Adjunct Faculty

### Jonathan Riggs Holt

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

### Po-Chun Hsu

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Smart multifunctional textiles, camouflage fabrics,
stimuli-responsive polymer, wearable electronics, photon management, radiation
heat transfer, solar desalination and water harvesting, electrochemical
devices, electrospinning and fiber fabrication

### Sylvie Lorente

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

### Jennifer L West

Fitzpatrick Family University Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomaterials, nanotechnology and tissue engineering that
involves the synthesis, development, and application of novel biofunctional
materials, and the use of biomaterials and engineering approaches to study
biological problems.

## Visiting Faculty

### Eduardo Saucedo

Visiting Scholar in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

## Emeritus Faculty

### F. Hadley Cocks

Professor Emeritus in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

### Devendra P. Garg

Professor Emeritus in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

### Robert Kielb

Professor of the Practice Emeritus in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Unsteady aerodynamics, aeroelasticity, mistuning, damping,
and probabilistic methods. Principal investigator on AFOSR, DARPA, NASA, and
industry-funded research projects.

### Edward J. Shaughnessy

Professor Emeritus in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

### Teh Yu Tan

Professor Emeritus in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

### Donald Wright

Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

## Podcast

Listen to a podcast from Duke Engineering, dedicated to the ingenious ways
that engineers are solving society's toughest problems.

Listen & subscribe

## News from Duke MEMS

March 07, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Putting the SE Back in Silicon Electronics

March 07, 2023 | **_University of Nottingham_**

### Brain Tumour Discovery Paves Way for New Drug Treatments

February 23, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Measuring the Lightest Touch Your Body Responds To

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

