Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Robert Kielb

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of the Practice Emeritus in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

Robert Kielb has over 45 years academic, industrial and government research
laboratory experience in turbomachinery propulsion. This consists of 8 years
with the U. S. Air Force, 10 years with NASA Lewis Research Center, and 12
years with GE Aircraft Engines as Manager of Aeromechanics Technology. He has
also been an Affiliated Professor at the Swedish Royal Institute of Technology
(KTH) since 2008. KTH is the leading science and technology university in
Sweden. Currently he is Associate Chair of the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University where conducts research
and teaches. He is also Director of the GUIde Consortium (10 companies, 4
universities and 2 government organizations) and Duke Coordinator for the EU-
funded THRUST MEng Program. His primary experiences are: 1) developing and
implementing state-of-the-art mechanical and aeromechanical design
technologies; 2) directing blade design, manufacture, and test; 3) initiating
and executing R&D programs to support needed technology improvements, and 4)
coordinating research programs among government, industry and universities
(GUIde). He has authored or co-authored over fifty technical papers, is a
recipient of the ASME’s Melville Award for substantial improvements in the
understanding of turbine aeroelasticity, and has presented invited lectures
worldwide. Dr. Kielb is a Fellow of the ASME and was a Chair of the Board of
Directors of the International Gas Turbine Institute, serving on the Board for
6 years. He has also served as Technical Program Chair for ASME Turbo Expo
’96, Chair of the ASME Structures and Dynamics Committee, and Associate Editor
of both the Journal of Turbomachinery and Journal of Engineering for Gas
Turbines and Power. (ASME – American Society of Mechanical Engineers)

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of the Practice Emeritus in the Thomas Lord Department of
    Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 179 Hudson Hall, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5327
  * **Email Address:** rkielb@duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. Ohio State University, 1981

## Research Interests

Unsteady aerodynamics, aeroelasticity, mistuning, damping, and probabilistic
methods. Principal investigator on AFOSR, DARPA, NASA, and industry-funded
research projects.

## Courses Taught

  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * ME 392: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 491: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 492: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 591: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 592: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 759: Special Readings in Mechanical Engineering
  * MENG 550: Master of Engineering Internship/Project
  * MENG 551: Master of Engineering Internship/Project Assessment

## In the News

  * The Sky's the Limit for Duke Engineers Designing the Safest, Most Cost-
    Efficien…
  * Building Faster, Safer Jet Turbines (May 23, 2019 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Pan, T., Z. Yan, H. Lu, Q. Li, and R. E. Kielb. “Forced Response Induced
    by Low Engine Order Under Circumferential Inlet Distortions With Different
    Extents.” Journal of Turbomachinery 145, no. 4 (April 1, 2023).
    https://doi.org/10.1115/1.4055970.
  * Hollenbach, R., R. Kielb, and K. Hall. “A Fluid-Structure Interaction Tool
    Using a Van der Pol-Based Reduced-Order Model for Buffet and
    Nonsynchronous Vibrations.” Journal of Turbomachinery 145, no. 1 (January
    1, 2023). https://doi.org/10.1115/1.4055447.
  * Hollenbach, R., R. Kielb, and K. Hall. “Extending a Van Der Pol-Based
    Reduced-Order Model for Fluid-Structure Interaction Applied to Non-
    Synchronous Vibrations in Turbomachinery.” Journal of Turbomachinery 144,
    no. 3 (March 1, 2022). https://doi.org/10.1115/1.4052405.
  * Hollenbach, R., R. Kielb, and K. Hall. “Unsteady Pressure Analysis of an
    Oscillating Cylinder Exhibiting Non-Synchronous Vibrations.” In Aiaa
    Science and Technology Forum and Exposition, Aiaa Scitech Forum 2022,
    2022. https://doi.org/10.2514/6.2022-0561.
  * Hollenbach, R., R. Kielb, and K. Hall. “Unsteady Pressures Analysis of an
    Oscillating Airfoil Exhibiting Nonsynchronous Vibrations as Applied to
    Turbomachinery.” In Aiaa Science and Technology Forum and Exposition, Aiaa
    Scitech Forum 2022, 2022. https://doi.org/10.2514/6.2022-0562.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

