Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# David Needham

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Professor Needham has been at Duke since 1987 and over the years has developed
many collaborative and scholarly relationships across the campus and Medical
School. He holds Faculty and membership appointments as: Associate Professor
of Biomedical Engineering; Center for Bioinspired Materials and Material
Systems; Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering; Duke Comprehensive
Cancer Center; and the Duke Cancer Institute. Internationally, he holds a
joint appointment as Professor of Translational Therapeutics in the School of
Pharmacy, at the University of Nottingham, UK. He also collaborates with
preclinical researchers at the Erasmus University Medical Center, in
Rotterdam, NL.  
For the past 35 years Needham's Lab has developed and used a platform
technology of micropipette manipulation to manipulate single and pairs of
micro bubbles, droplets and particles in order to assess their behavior in
well-defined fluids and solution conditions. Recently his research and
development has focused on nucleation, growth and stability of nanoparticles.
Applications of these fundamental particle and interfacial studies have
primarily focused on advanced drug delivery treatments for cancer and now
COVID19 with a nasal and throat spray prophylactic and early treatment
regimen.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
    Science
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3391 Fciemas Building, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5355
  * **Email Address:** d.needham@duke.edu

## Education

  * B.S. Nottingham Trent University (United Kingdom), 1975
  * Ph.D. University of Nottingham (United Kingdom), 1981

## Research Interests

Needham’s research and development is nothing if it is not collaborative.

Highlights:

  * Anti-cancer drug delivery inspired by how cancer's survive and spread due
    to their consumption of Lipoprotein particles from the blood-stream (LDLs
    and VLDLs) hence his approach:
  * Make the drug look like the cancer's food" Converts low solubility drugs
    ("bricks") into even lower solubility "Rocks" that can be made into
    nanoparticles of pure drug made =by the solvent exchange process, hence
    his "Bricks to Rocks technology (B2RT)
  * Explored the pH dependence of Niclosamide solubility, dissolution, and
    morphology and created a potentially universal mucin-penetrating nasal and
    throat sprays for COVID19, its viral variants and other viral infections.
  * Single micro- and nano-particle science and engineering utilizing a
    micropipette technique for single particle micromanipulation.

For the past 35 years Needham's Lab has developed and used a platform
technology of micropipette manipulation to manipulate single and pairs of
micro particles in order to assess their behavior in well-defined fluids and
solution conditions. With these techniques, he brings a wealth of expertise in
colloid and interfacial science and engineering evaluating all 3 states of
matter and their 5 interfaces, at the microscale, as micro-bubbles, -drops and
-particles. Results of these kinds of studies have impacted: bubble technology
for ultrasound; Droplet Interface Bilayers (DIBs) in collaboration with the
Hagan Bayley lab at the University of Oxford UK; as well as the
microglassification of proteins and peptides for storage, transport and use.
This technology is now being developed by his ex-graduate student now CEO and
Founder of Lindy Biosciences, Deborah Bitterfield PhD. Other industrial
collaborations arising from the micropipet studies include with Gary Fujii,
PhD, CEO and Founder of Molecular Express Inc in Los Angeles, California on a
variety of products including a new lung surfactant for respiratory distress
syndromes

Applications of these fundamental particle and interfacial studies have
primarily focused on advanced drug delivery treatments for cancer. Of note
over the past 20 years has been his invention and development of the Low-
Temperature-Sensitive Liposome system for treatment of local cancers that can
be warmed by mild hyperthermia. This 1996 invention was pre-clinically and
clinically developed with collaborators in the Duke Medical Center,
specifically with Dr. Mark Dewhirst PhD DVM (now retired) and his then
Hyperthermia Program in Radiation Oncology and the Duke Cancer Institute and
licensed to Celsion Corporation.

Recently his research and development has focused on nanoparticles, again for
anti-cancer applications. Recognizing that cancers are known to “feed” on Low
Density Lipoprotein (LDL) particles (--sub microscopic nanoparticles composed
of fat and protein) from the blood stream, his new strategy is to “make the
drug look like the cancer’s food”. The new technology turns the low solubility
“bricks” of the pharmaceutical industry, that are very difficult to administer
in effective doses by oral tablets, and turns them into much less soluble
“rocks” so that they can be made into the LDL-sized nanoparticles for
intravenous delivery. This work is in close collaboration with his colleague,
Dave Gooden PhD, Director of the Duke Small Molecule Synthesis Facility; hence
their “Bricks-to-Rocks Technology (B2RT). Here, in collaboration, with Will
Eward DVM, MD Dept of Surgical Oncology and Ivan Spasojevic, PhD, Director of
the PK/PD core, they have pioneered testing this new kind of anti-cancer drug
nanoparticle. It has already shown positive results in a lung-metastatic mouse
model of Osteosarcoma, as well as in a recent feasibility trial in canine
patients with Steve Suter VMD, MS, PhD, DACVIM and colleagues at the NC State
Veterinary School.

Finally, over the past year, responding to the COVID19 pandemic, Needham has
developed 11 provisional patent applications and one in particular is now
forming the basis for a new nasal and throat spray that is intended for use as
a Prophylactic-Preventative and in early treatment of COVID19. This work is
being carried out in a new collaboration with Christina BArkauskas, Assistant
Professor in Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, along with Dr
Patty Lee and her lab. Together they are actively pursuing Investigational New
Drug (IND) studies required to advance the new spray to testing in patients.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Doctor of Science. University of Nottingham. 2015
  * Honorary Professor. School of Pharmacy, Nottingham University, Nottingham,
    UK. 2014
  * Hans Christian Andersen Academy Professor. University Southern Denmark,
    Odense, Denmark. 2012
  * Niels Bohr Professorship,. Danish National Research Foundation, Denmark.
    2012
  * VELUX Visiting Professor Program. VELUX Foundation. 2011
  * Visiting Professor, MEMPHYS/MultiCaps. University of Southern Denmark,
    Denmark. 2011
  * Participant: Series of Workshops and Tutorials on “Cells and Materials at
    the Interface between Mathematics, Biology and Engineering”. Institute for
    Pure and Applied Math, UCLA. 2006
  * National Academy of Sciences Committee on Biomolecular Materials and
    Processes. Board on Physics and Astronomy National Research Council, the
    National Academies . 2006
  * Participant, “Blue Sky Committee” . Duke University. 2006
  * Alfred M. Hunt Faculty Scholarship. Duke University. 1988
  * Recipient F.I.R.S.T. Award. National Institutes of Health. 1988
  * NATO/SERC (England) Fellowship. NATO/SERC . 1983
  * Oppenheimer Research Fellowship. Cambridge University. 1982

## Courses Taught

  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering

## In the News

  * Simple pH Adjustment May Enable a Preventative COVID-19 Nasal and Throat
    Spray …
  * Developing New Strategies for Cancer Drug Delivery, in Denmark and at Duke
    (Jan…
  * David Needham Named Honorary Professor of Pharmacy at the University of
    Notting…

## Representative Publications

  * Needham, David, Koji Kinoshita, and Anders Utoft. “Micro-Surface and
    -Interfacial Tensions Measured Using the Micropipette Technique:
    Applications in Ultrasound-Microbubbles, Oil-Recovery, Lung-Surfactants,
    Nanoprecipitation, and Microfluidics.” Micromachines 10, no. 2 (February
    2019): E105. https://doi.org/10.3390/mi10020105.
  * Needham, David, Amina Arslanagic, Kasper Glud, Pablo Hervella, Leena
    Karimi, Poul-Flemming Høeilund-Carlsen, Koji Kinoshita, et al. “Bottom up
    design of nanoparticles for anti-cancer diapeutics: "put the drug in the
    cancer's food".” Journal of Drug Targeting 24, no. 9 (November 2016):
    836–56. https://doi.org/10.1080/1061186x.2016.1238092.
  * Needham, David, Ji-Young Park, Alexander M. Wright, and Jihong Tong.
    “Materials characterization of the low temperature sensitive liposome
    (LTSL): effects of the lipid composition (lysolipid and DSPE-PEG2000) on
    the thermal transition and release of doxorubicin.” Faraday Discussions
    161 (2013): 515–34. https://doi.org/10.1039/c2fd20111a.
  * Manzoor, Ashley A., Lars H. Lindner, Chelsea D. Landon, Ji-Young Park,
    Andrew J. Simnick, Matthew R. Dreher, Shiva Das, et al. “Overcoming
    limitations in nanoparticle drug delivery: triggered, intravascular
    release to improve drug penetration into tumors.” Cancer Res 72, no. 21
    (November 1, 2012): 5566–75.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-12-1683.
  * Needham, D., and M. W. Dewhirst. “The development and testing of a new
    temperature-sensitive drug delivery system for the treatment of solid
    tumors.” Adv Drug Deliv Rev 53, no. 3 (December 31, 2001): 285–305.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0169-409x(01)00233-2.
  * Olbrich, K., W. Rawicz, D. Needham, and E. Evans. “Water permeability and
    mechanical strength of polyunsaturated lipid bilayers.” Biophys J 79, no.
    1 (July 2000): 321–27. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0006-3495(00)76294-1.
  * Rawicz, W., K. C. Olbrich, T. McIntosh, D. Needham, and E. Evans. “Effect
    of chain length and unsaturation on elasticity of lipid bilayers.” Biophys
    J 79, no. 1 (July 2000): 328–39.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/S0006-3495(00)76295-3.
  * Needham, D., G. Anyarambhatla, G. Kong, and M. W. Dewhirst. “A new
    temperature-sensitive liposome for use with mild hyperthermia:
    characterization and testing in a human tumor xenograft model.” Cancer Res
    60, no. 5 (March 1, 2000): 1197–1201.
  * Lasic, D. D., and D. Needham. “The "Stealth" liposome: A prototypical
    biomaterial.” Chemical Reviews 95, no. 8 (1995): 2601–28.
  * Needham, D., and R. S. Nunn. “Elastic deformation and failure of lipid
    bilayer membranes containing cholesterol.” Biophys J 58, no. 4 (October
    1990): 997–1009. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0006-3495(90)82444-9.
  * Evans, E., and D. Needham. “Physical properties of surfactant bilayer
    membranes: Thermal transitions, elasticity, rigidity, cohesion, and
    colloidal interactions.” Journal of Physical Chemistry 91, no. 16 (1987):
    4219–28.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

