Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Devendra P. Garg

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor Emeritus in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Professor Garg's areas of interest include modeling, simulation, and control
of dynamic systems and robotics. In particular, his research deals with
characterization and control of nonlinear phenomena in physical systems such
as robots, automated manufacturing, and high-speed ground transportation. In
the area of robotics, he is interested in the design of feedback controllers
using the concepts of modern control theory. In the area of high-speed ground
transportation, he has conducted research on dynamics and control of ground-
based, air-cushion and magnetically levitated vehicles.

One challenging area of research which Professor Garg is currently pursuing
deals with the coordination and control of two robots handling a large
structural object performing a series of intricate maneuvers in a confined
work space. Analytical development of path planning and collision avoidance
strategies and their practical implementation are being carried out in the
Robotics and Manufacturing Automation (RAMA) laboratory. Two ABB Industrial
grade six-degree-of freedom revolute jointed robots are available for these
experiments. Major challenges related to this research effort include the
identification and design of techniques for incorporating sensory data in the
control algorithm, modeling the nonlinear dynamics of the manipulators, and
the development of intelligent and adaptive control schemes for the
coordination of multiple arms in the presence of unknown parameters and
payload variations. Another area of research that Professor Garg is actively
pursuing is sensor modeling, data acquisition and management, and data fusion
in the context of swarm robotics. For the experimental work in this area, the
Robot Control Laboratory has a number of KheperaII robots, LADAR sensors, and
vision sensors.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor Emeritus in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
    Materials Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 223 Hudson Hall, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5330
  * **Email Address:** dpgarg@duke.edu

## Education

  * B.S. Agra University (India), 1954
  * B.S.E. University of Roorkee (India), 1957
  * M.S. University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1960
  * Ph.D. New York University, 1969

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Edwin F. Church Medal. American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 2003

## Representative Publications

  * Zhang, G., G. K. Fricke, and D. P. Garg. “Spill detection and perimeter
    surveillance via distributed swarming agents.” Ieee/Asme Transactions on
    Mechatronics 18, no. 1 (January 1, 2013): 121–29.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/TMECH.2011.2164578.
  * Young, R., and D. Garg. “Potential Function Control of Distributed Multi-
    agent Systems (Submitted).” Journal of Robotics, March 2011.
  * Milutinović, D. L., and D. P. Garg. “Kalman smoother based force
    localization and mapping using intravital video microscopy.” Journal of
    Dynamic Systems, Measurement and Control, Transactions of the Asme 132,
    no. 6 (November 30, 2010). https://doi.org/10.1115/1.4002485.
  * Kumar, M., D. P. Garg, and V. Kumar. “Segregation of heterogeneous units
    in a swarm of robotic agents.” Ieee Transactions on Automatic Control 55,
    no. 3 (March 1, 2010): 743–48. https://doi.org/10.1109/TAC.2010.2040494.
  * Kumar, M., and D. Garg. “Intelligent Sensor Uncertainty Modeling
    Techniques and Data Fusion.” International Journal of Control and
    Intelligent Systems 37, no. 2 (2009): 67–77.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

