Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Donald B. Bliss

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Professor Bliss has broad research interests in fluid mechanics, aerodynamics,
acoustics, and structural dynamics. His work emphasizes improved
understandings of physical phenomena and the development of innovative ways to
solve important engineering problems. Professor Bliss recently developed a
general analysis method called Analytical/Numerical matching (ANM) that
combines numerical and analytical solutions to gain accuracy and computational
efficiency. ANM is currently being applied to a variety of problems in
aerodynamics and structural acoustics.

Much of Professor Bliss' research on fluid flows involves the aerodynamics of
lifting surfaces and vortex wakes. For helicopter wakes he has developed
curved vortex elements, constant vorticity contour wake models, and influence
coefficient techniques. In collaboration with a private company, these have
been incorporated into commercially available computer programs used by
industry and government to predict helicopter performance, vibration, and
noise. Currently, ANM is being used to develop a new unified treatment of
lifting surfaces and wakes in unsteady compressible flow. Professor Bliss is
also developing a new vortex roll-up analysis, and using ANM to study
helicopter blade/vortex interaction.

In acoustics, Professor Bliss' primary effort is in the application of ANM to
structural acoustics, particularly to acoustic scattering from submerged
elastic bodies with structural discontinuities. He has also developed a method
called Alternate Resonance Tuning (ART) to prevent low frequency sound
transmission into flexible wall enclosures, with applications to aircraft
interior noise. He also conducts research on mathematical homogenization
applied to structural acoustic systems, and on general boundary conditions for
bulk-reacting sound absorbing surfaces.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 148B Engineering Bldg, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5315
  * **Email Address:** donald.bliss@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * AeroElasticity Group
    * Bliss Lab

## Education

  * B.S.E. Princeton University, 1968
  * M.S. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1970
  * Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1973

## Research Interests

Fluid mechanics, aerodynamics, acoustics, and structural dynamics

## Courses Taught

  * ME 472: Aircraft Performance
  * ME 491: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 492: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 536: Compressible Fluid Flow
  * ME 571: Aerodynamics
  * ME 572: Engineering Acoustics
  * ME 591: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 592: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 676: Advanced Acoustics

## In the News

  * The Sky's the Limit for Duke Engineers Designing the Safest, Most Cost-
    Efficien…

## Representative Publications

  * Su, K., and D. Bliss. “A numerical study of tilt-based wake steering using
    a hybrid free-wake method.” Wind Energy 23, no. 2 (February 1, 2020):
    258–73. https://doi.org/10.1002/we.2426.
  * Raudales, David, Donald B. Bliss, Krista A. Michalis, Jerry W. Rouse, and
    Linda P. Franzoni. “Benchmark analytical solutions for steady state high
    frequency broadband sound fields in three rectangular enclosures.” The
    Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 145, no. 4 (April 2019):
    2601. https://doi.org/10.1121/1.5095771.
  * Su, K., and D. Bliss. “A novel hybrid free-wake model for wind turbine
    performance and wake evolution.” Renewable Energy 131 (February 1, 2019):
    977–92. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2018.07.108.
  * Su, K., and D. B. Bliss. “A hybrid free wake simulation comparison of
    turbine wake steering with innovative turbine designs.” In Proceedings of
    the Asme Turbo Expo, Vol. 9, 2017. https://doi.org/10.1115/GT2017-64105.
  * Su, K., and D. Bliss. “Wind farm performance improvement by using wake
    transport.” In Annual Forum Proceedings Ahs International, 4:3498–3509,
    2016.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

