Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Josiah D. Knight

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Josiah Knight, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, is Co-Director
of the Energy and Environment Certificate, a program that prepares students to
confront complex problems in providing safe, clean, reliable and affordable
energy. The curriculum brings together students from arts and sciences as well
as engineering in a series of courses spanning natural science, social science
and technology, culminating in a capstone course in which multidisciplinary
teams design, build, test and evaluate energy system prototypes. In the
process, students learn to communicate across a spectrum of backgrounds and
interests, as they must do to address energy problems in the larger world.

Knight's current research interests are in solar thermal energy and alternate
propulsion methods for ground transportation. Solar thermal energy, in
addition to direct uses for space, water and industrial heating, has been
shown to be an efficient means of electricity generation. Much progress has
been made in recent years on fault-tolerant solar thermal collectors, and
integration of such systems with distributed power generation is a promising
path toward low-carbon electricity.

Alternatives to the gasoline and diesel internal combustion engine have
potential to expand the range of fuels that can be efficiently used for
transportation and stationary power. A major issue in the development of
biofuels for ICEs is that much of the heating value of the biomass is consumed
in transforming the solids to liquid fuels. Burning solid biomass directly
delivers greater net energy, but must be done in external combustion. Activity
in this area is presently focused on optimizing performance of external
combustion engines by using adaptive intake and exhaust porting and closed-
loop valve control. The area is rich in both applied and basic questions that
couple thermodynamics and electro-mechanical dynamics in nonlinear regimes.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 175 Hudson Hall, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5337
  * **Email Address:** jknight@duke.edu

## Education

  * B.S. University of Virginia, 1980
  * M.S. University of Virginia, 1982
  * Ph.D. University of Virginia, 1986

## Research Interests

Fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, and dynamics

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * P.M. Ku Award. Society of Tribologists and Lubrication Engineers. 2005

## Courses Taught

  * EGR 424L: Energy and Environment Design
  * ENERGY 310: Introduction to Energy Generation, Delivery, Conversion and
    Efficiency
  * ENERGY 395-1: Connections in Energy: Interdisciplinary Team Projects
  * ENERGY 396: Connections in Energy: Interdisciplinary Team Projects
  * ENERGY 396T: Bass Connections Energy & Environment Research Team
  * ENERGY 795-1: Connections in Energy: Interdisciplinary Team Projects
  * ENERGY 796: Connections in Energy: Interdisciplinary Team Projects
  * ENERGY 796T: Bass Connections Energy & Environment Research Team
  * ENRGYEGR 310: Introduction to Energy Generation, Delivery, Conversion and
    Efficiency
  * ME 331L: Thermodynamics
  * ME 461: Energy Engineering and the Environment
  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering

## In the News

  * Energy Initiative-Supported Project Connects Brain Science with Electric
    Cars (…
  * Interdisciplinary Teams Take a Hands-on Approach to Energy Innovations
    (Dec 2, …
  * Bass Connections Goes to Detroit (Jul 18, 2014)

## Representative Publications

  * Plaut, R. H., L. N. Virgin, and J. D. Knight. “Predicting critical speeds
    in various rotordynamics problems.” Proceedings of the Institution of
    Mechanical Engineers, Part C: Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science
    231, no. 21 (November 1, 2017): 3913–22.
    https://doi.org/10.1177/0954406216659680.
  * Knight, J. D., L. N. Virgin, and R. H. Plaut. “Predicting Critical Speeds
    in Rotordynamics: A New Method.” In Journal of Physics: Conference Series,
    Vol. 744, 2016. https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/744/1/012155.
  * Virgin, L. N., J. D. Knight, and R. H. Plaut. “A New Method for Predicting
    Critical Speeds in Rotordynamics.” Journal of Engineering for Gas Turbines
    and Power 138, no. 2 (February 1, 2016).
    https://doi.org/10.1115/1.4031308.
  * Richter, Daniel Deb, Dylan H. Jenkins, John T. Karakash, Josiah Knight,
    Lew R. McCreery, and Kasimir P. Nemestothy. “Resource policy. Wood energy
    in America.” Science (New York, N.Y.) 323, no. 5920 (March 2009): 1432–33.
    https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1166214.
  * Richter, Daniel de B Jr, Dylan H. Jenkins, John T. Karakash, Josiah
    Knight, Lew R. Mccreery, and Kasimir P. Nemestothy. “Wood Energy: The
    Dangers of Combustion Response.” Science 324, no. 5933 (2009): 1390–91.
    https://doi.org/10.1126/science.324_1390b.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

