Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Lawrence N. Virgin

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Professor Virgin's research is centered on studying the behavior of nonlinear
dynamical systems. This work may be broadly divided into two components.
First, investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems based on a
mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion. Both
analytical and numerical techniques are used with special attention focused on
the loss of stability of dynamical systems.  

The second area of interest is to apply recent results from nonlinear
dynamical systems theory to problems of practical engineering importance.
These include the nonlinear rolling motion of ships leading to capsize;
buckling of axially-loaded structural components; aeroelastic flutter of
aircraft panels at high supersonic speeds; vibration isolation based on
nonlinear springs; energy harvesting; damage detection and structural health
monitoring; and the dynamics of very flexible structures including solar sails
and marine risers. Professor Virgin conducts mechanical experiments to
complement these studies.

The flavor of much of this work is contained in the books:

Introduction to Experimental Nonlinear Dynamics, L.N. Virgin, Cambridge
University Press, 2000.

Vibration of Axially Loaded Structures, L.N. Virgin, Cambridge University
Press, 2007.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3393 Fciemas, Duke Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5342
  * **Email Address:** l.virgin@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * http://nonlineardynamics.pratt.duke.edu/

## Education

  * B.S. University of Manchester (United Kingdom), 1981
  * M.S. Cardiff University (United Kingdom), 1982
  * Ph.D. University of London (United Kingdom), 1986

## Research Interests

Study of the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems, including the
investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems based on a
mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion and the
application of recent results from nonlinear dynamical systems theory to
problems of practical engineering importance, especially in aerospace
engineering.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Frocht Award. Society for Experimental Mechanics. 2016
  * International Gas Turbine Institute's (IGTI) J. P. Davis Award. American
    Society of Mechanical Engineers. 2012

## Courses Taught

  * ME 391: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 392: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 394: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
  * ME 473: Aerospace Structures
  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 491: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 492: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 493: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
  * ME 494: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 592: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 742: Nonlinear Mechanical Vibration

## In the News

  * Crushing Cylinders for Fun and Science (Jan 23, 2023 | Pratt School of
    Engineer…
  * The Sky's the Limit for Duke Engineers Designing the Safest, Most Cost-
    Efficien…

## Representative Publications

  * Virgin, L. N., and P. S. Harvey. “A lateral–torsional buckling
    demonstration model using 3D printing.” Engineering Structures 280 (April
    1, 2023). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engstruct.2023.115682.
  * Cooley, S. A., H. Yang, and L. N. Virgin. “3D-printing and cylinder
    buckling: challenges and opportunities.” Philosophical Transactions.
    Series A, Mathematical, Physical, and Engineering Sciences 381, no. 2244
    (April 2023): 20220035. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2022.0035.
  * Virgin, L. N. “On the elastic snapping of structural elements.”
    International Journal of Non Linear Mechanics 149 (March 1, 2023).
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijnonlinmec.2022.104329.
  * Cervi, C., S. T. Santillan, and L. N. Virgin. “Interrogating the
    Configuration Space of Postbuckled Beams.” Journal of Engineering
    Mechanics 149, no. 3 (March 1, 2023).
    https://doi.org/10.1061/JENMDT.EMENG-6839.
  * Virgin, L. N. “A shear center demonstration model using 3D-printing.”
    International Journal of Mechanical Engineering Education 50, no. 3 (July
    1, 2022): 739–48. https://doi.org/10.1177/03064190211057429.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

