Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Leila Bridgeman

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Leila Bridgeman joined Duke as an assistant professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science on January 1, 2018.  
  
She received B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees in Applied Mathematics in 2008 and 2010
from McGill University, Montreal. In 2016, she completed a Ph.D. in Mechanical
engineering, also at McGill University.

Her doctoral research involved a return to the foundational work of George
Zames, exploring how the theory of conic sectors can be used to design
controllers that guarantee closed-loop input-output stability when more
conventional methods fail to apply. Her graduate studies involved research
semesters at University of Michigan, University of Bern, and University of
Victoria, along with an internship at Mitsubishi Electric Research
Laboratories (MERL) in Boston.

Through her research, Leila strives to bridge the gap between theoretical
results in robust and optimal control and their use in practice. She explores
how the tools of numerical analysis and input-output stability theory can be
applied to the most challenging of controls problems, including the control of
delayed, open-loop unstable, and nonminimum-phase systems. Her focus has been
on the development of readily-applicable controller synthesis and stability
analysis methods based on the evaluation of linear matrix inequalities (LMIs).
Resulting publications have considered applications of this work to robotic,
process control, and time-delay systems.  
  
She is also interested in model predictive control (MPC) especially when
applied to switched systems. Bridgeman continues to collaborate with
colleagues at MERL, enabling the use of MPC in novel applications including
networked systems, vehicle control, heating, and ventilation.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** North Building, Office 129, 304RESEARCH Dr-Box
    103957, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-1260
  * **Email Address:** leila.bridgeman@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Bridgeman Lab - bridgeman.pratt.duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. McGill University (Canada), 2016

## Research Interests

Robust and optimal control, linear matrix inequalities (LMIs), model
predictive control (MPC), delayed systems, input-output stability, passivity.

## Courses Taught

  * ECE 291: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 382L: Control of Dynamic Systems
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * ME 344L: Control of Dynamic Systems
  * ME 392: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 491: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 591: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 592: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 758S: Curricular Practical Training

## In the News

  * Robotics for a New Generation (Apr 19, 2017 | Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Hall, R. A., and L. J. Bridgeman. “Computationally Tractable Stability
    Criteria for Exogenously Switched Model Predictive Control.” Ieee Control
    Systems Letters 5, no. 5 (November 1, 2021): 1777–82.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/LCSYS.2020.3043866.
  * Lavaei, R., R. Hall, C. Danielson, and L. Bridgeman. “Constraint
    Enforcement via Tube-Based MPC Exploiting Switching Restrictions.” Ieee
    Control Systems Letters 5, no. 5 (November 1, 2021): 1789–94.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/LCSYS.2020.3045391.
  * Locicero, E. J., and L. Bridgeman. “Sparsity Promoting H-Conic Control.”
    Ieee Control Systems Letters 5, no. 4 (October 1, 2021): 1453–58.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/LCSYS.2020.3039712.
  * Gong, Z., and L. J. Bridgeman. “Conic Sector Based Stability Criteria for
    Time-Delay Systems.” In Proceedings of the Ieee Conference on Decision and
    Control, 2021-December:4762–67, 2021.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/CDC45484.2021.9683127.
  * Bridgeman, L. J., and J. R. Forbes. “Iterative H2-conic controller
    synthesis.” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control 29, no.
    11 (July 25, 2019): 3701–14. https://doi.org/10.1002/rnc.4581.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

