Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Stefan Zauscher

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

My research lies at the intersection of surface and colloid science, polymer
materials engineering, and biointerface science, with four central areas of
focus: 1\. Fabrication, manipulation and characterization of stimulus-
responsive biomolecular and bio-inspired polymeric nanostructures on surfaces;
2\. Nanotechnology of soft-wet materials and hybrid biological/non-biological
microdevices; 3\. Receptor-ligand interactions relevant to the diagnostics of
infectious diseases; 4\. Friction of soft-wet materials, specifically the role
of glycoproteins on friction in diarthroidal joints. These four broad lines of
inquiry deal with fundamental behaviors of soft-wet materials on surfaces and
interfaces. The design and fabrication of these interfaces using "smart"
polymeric and biomolecular nanostructures, and the characterization of the
resulting structures, are critically important for the development of
biomolecular sensors and devices and for bioinspired materials. Key approaches
and tools I use in my research are: bottom-up organization on the molecular
scale, through self-assembly, in-situ polymerization, and manipulation of
intermolecular interactions; topdown fabrication, through scanning probe
nanolithography; stimulus-responsive polymers; molecular recognition; and new
approaches to sensing and manipulation. This research supports Duke's Pratt
School of Engineering strategic initiative to expand research in soft-wet
Materials Science.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
    Science
  * Director of the Duke Materials Initiative
  * Associate Chair in Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
    Materials Science
  * Bass Fellow
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3385 Fciemas Building, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5360
  * **Email Address:** zauscher@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar
    * Zauscher Lab

## Education

  * M.S. Oregon State University, 1992
  * Ph.D. University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1999

## Research Interests

Nano-mechanical and nano-tribological characterization (elasticity, friction,
adhesion) of materials including organic thin films; self-assembled
monolayers, polymeric gels, and cellulosics; Fabrication of polymeric
nanostructures by scanning probe lithography; Colloidal probe and atomic force
microscopy; Single molecule force spectroscopy applied to ligand-receptor
binding; Biomolecular nano- and micro-sensors

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellow. American Vacuum Society (AVS). 2020
  * Dean of the Graduate School Award for Inclusive Excellence in Graduate
    Education. Duke University. 2016
  * Chair. 5th Gordon Research Conference in Biointerface Science. 2014
  * Marion and Capers McDonald Award for Excellence in Teaching and Research.
    Duke University, Pratt School of Engineering. 2012
  * ICCES Young Investigator Award. International Center for Computational
    Engineering Sciences. 2008
  * Bronze Award for Scientific Achievement. 26th Army Science Conference,
    U.S. Army Research. 2008
  * Young Investigator Award. American Academy of Nanomedicine. 2005
  * Early CAREER Award. National Science Foundation. 2003
  * Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program. National Science
    Foundation. 2003
  * Faculty Enhancement Award. Oak Ridge Associated Universities. 2001

## Courses Taught

  * BME 529: Properties and Characterization of Polymeric Materials
  * ME 221L: Structure and Properties of Solids
  * ME 391: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 514: Properties and Characterization of Polymeric Materials
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 758S: Curricular Practical Training
  * MSEG 591: Independent Study

## In the News

  * Measuring the Lightest Touch Your Body Responds To (Feb 28, 2023 | Pratt
    School…
  * QATCH (Feb 1, 2021 | Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship)
  * Energy Initiative Provides First Round of Research Seed Funding (Apr 16,
    2014 |…

## Representative Publications

  * Young, Michael N., Michael J. Sindoni, Amanda H. Lewis, Stefan Zauscher,
    and Jörg Grandl. “The energetics of rapid cellular mechanotransduction.”
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 120, no. 8 (February 21, 2023): e2215747120.
    https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2215747120.
  * Simon, Miriam, Albert Prause, Stefan Zauscher, and Michael Gradzielski.
    “Self-Assembled Single-Stranded DNA Nano-Networks in Solution and at
    Surfaces.” Biomacromolecules 23, no. 3 (March 2022): 1242–50.
    https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.biomac.1c01493.
  * Gilpin, Anna, Yuze Zeng, Jiaul Hoque, Ji Hyun Ryu, Yong Yang, Stefan
    Zauscher, William Eward, and Shyni Varghese. “Self-Healing of Hyaluronic
    Acid to Improve In Vivo Retention and Function.” Adv Healthc Mater 10, no.
    23 (December 2021): e2100777. https://doi.org/10.1002/adhm.202100777.
  * Yang, Yunqi, Qinyi Lu, Chao‐Min Huang, Hongji Qian, Yunlong Zhang, Sonal
    Deshpande, Gaurav Arya, Yonggang Ke, and Stefan Zauscher. “Programmable
    Site‐Specific Functionalization of DNA Origami with Polynucleotide
    Brushes.” Angewandte Chemie 133, no. 43 (October 18, 2021): 23429–35.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202107829.
  * Yang, Yunqi, Qinyi Lu, Chao-Min Huang, Hongji Qian, Yunlong Zhang, Sonal
    Deshpande, Gaurav Arya, Yonggang Ke, and Stefan Zauscher. “Programmable
    Site-Specific Functionalization of DNA Origami with Polynucleotide
    Brushes.” Angewandte Chemie (International Ed. in English) 60, no. 43
    (October 2021): 23241–47. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202107829.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

