

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Campus Safety Updates

_June 29, 2020_

Dear Pratt graduate students,

With all Pratt research buildings now reopened and more of you returning to
work in the labs, we are writing with updates and information about health and
safety on campus.

First, we would like to thank those who have returned to the labs for
excellent overall adherence to Duke’s COVID-19 Health and Safety Policies for
research operations to date. Since COVID-19 cases are rising in North
Carolina, it is critical that each individual remain vigilant off-campus as
well as on-campus, and continue diligently following Duke procedures,
including wearing a mask, observing social distancing and reporting any
symptoms to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. If you believe that your
colleagues are not observing the safety measures put into place, contact the
anonymous hotline at **800-826-8109** (24 hours a day, 7 days a week), or at
oarc.duke.edu.

Second, although more people have been approved to return to campus buildings,
staggered shifts and social distancing measures mean that individuals may
occasionally be working in relative isolation or into the evening. To help
ensure your safety, please follow Duke Police’s safety advice and be aware of
these personal safety resources available to you:

Security Escorts

After dark, Duke Police offers safety escorts for students and employees on
campus. To request an escort, call 919-684-2444, pick up a nearby Help Phone,
or use the ‘Emergency Contact’ feature on Duke’s LiveSafe mobile app.

Van Services

From **5:30 p.m.- 12:30 a.m. Monday through Saturday** , Duke Vans provides
free, on-demand transportation for faculty, staff and students. Rides are
available to and from most Duke facilities that are open during these hours.
Note that the service covers only a **2.5 mile span around campus** (view a
map of the service boundary).

To request a ride, call 919-684-2020. Occasionally, a high volume of calls
will mean longer wait times. Be prepared to provide the exact pickup and drop-
off location, number of passengers, valid phone number and your first name.
Duke Vans needs this information to identify you, and to make its service as
efficient as possible. No app reservations are available for Saturdays--only
call in.

**_NOTE: Van Services is currently operating with limited availability. There
is a 50% maximum passenger capacity in each van that may result in a longer-
than-usual wait. Face coverings are required_** **.**

Emergency Contacts

For emergency assistance, call 911 or call Duke Police at 919-684-2444.
Download the Duke LiveSafe app for quick-call access and other safety
information and resources.

Building Access

Currently, the Pratt buildings are only open to pre-approved faculty, staff
and research personnel, who must swipe in with their Duke IDs to enter the
buildings. To request one-time access, speak first with your supervisor.
Please do not prop open doors or allow non-authorized personnel to enter the
buildings.

Your safety and health are of the utmost importance to us. If you have any
safety-related concerns or questions, please contact either of us or Mitchell
Vann, Director of Facilities, Infrastructure and Safety for the Pratt School,
mitchell.vann@duke.edu.

George A. Truskey, Sr. Associate Dean  
Jennifer L. West, Associate Dean for PhD Education

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

