

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Research Town Hall Updates & Fitzpatrick CIEMAS Reopening May 26

_May 22, 2020_

Dear colleagues,

Thank you to all who attended the Pratt Research Reopening Town Hall this
week. We have gathered answers to many of the questions submitted, and have
posted these updates and the slides from the Town Hall on the Pratt COVID-19
webpage along with other helpful Duke resources.

**> > ****CLICK HERE TO VIEW FAQs AND SLIDES** **< < **

As we continue our phased reopening of Duke research labs, the next building
to open will be Fitzpatrick CIEMAS on Tuesday, May 26.

The information below provides key points about what to expect for those
returning to campus. Although a few points are specific to those working in
Fitzpatrick, the general guidance applies to those returning to other labs in
the coming weeks. If all goes well with the current reopenings, Hudson, Gross,
North and Teer will reopen June 1.

When should lab members return to the lab?

Each lab has prepared a list of personnel who need lab access to do their
work, which will be checked against door access information and via routine
walk-throughs. Faculty will need to complete a survey from the Office of the
Vice President for Research to add the names of approved personnel **before**
any individuals return to their labs. The link will be distributed after
approval of each lab’s reopening plan (please look for an email from George
Truskey).

Lab members should follow the shift schedule in their approved lab plan to
ensure that each person working in the lab is separated from others by 6 feet,
with at least 250 sf per person during any shift. Individuals should be in the
lab **only** when they need to perform work using the laboratory facilities
(e.g. standing at the bench or in front of hoods, using lab equipment). **Data
analysis, computing activities and other desk work that does not require a lab
presence should continue to be done remotely.** Undergraduates are not
permitted to be in Duke research labs until further notice.

What protective measures will be in place? What protocols do I need to follow?

Duke has created specific protocols to protect the health and safety of
employees and graduate students who are approved to return to research
laboratories. **Please carefully read and follow thePolicies for Returning to
Research Labs. Labs are responsible for following these guidelines.** As
noted, the three most important measures are to 1) wear a face covering, 2)
regularly wash your hands and 3) keep your distance from other people. Duke
will provide disposable masks for individuals to wear if needed; cloth face
coverings may also be used. We have installed additional hand sanitizer
stations in and around Duke research labs in the building.

Duke Employee Occupational Health & Wellness has also developed a tool to
enable everyone coming in to record their health condition before leaving
home, and to notify us when they leave the lab. Details will be provided to
each lab once their shift plan is approved.

How can I get masks?

**** Individuals approved to work in the lab will receive one mask for each
day they are in the lab. Pratt Facilities will distribute surgical masks for
individuals approved to work in Fitzpatrick CIEMAS from Tuesday 5/26–Friday
5/29 from 8:30–11 a.m. in Twinnie’s. We are asking labs to send a
representative to get masks for a two-week period for now. We will log
receipt.

How will deliveries be handled?

Beginning Tuesday 5/26, deliverers will be granted access to the Fitzpatrick
back dock by an Allied Security Guard and to the Fitzpatrick building only.
All deliveries are expected to be delivered either directly to the lab if that
was the process before COVID-19, or to a receiving point in the BME
Administrative Suite, Fitzpatrick 1427. A small number of BME staff will
manage this process 8 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The staff there will
accept packages on behalf of Pratt and notify the recipients or business
offices for pickup.

BME staff will notify recipients and provide them with 45-minute windows when
pickup may occur. A photo ID will be required in order for the package to be
released. If someone other than the intended recipient is designated to pick
up the package, the recipient needs to convey this via reply email to the BME
staff member who initially contacts them about the delivery, stating the name
of their designee, since no other record of the delivery will be maintained.

Unless there are extenuating circumstances, **you will be expected to pick up
deliveries on the same day**. BME has limited storage capacity, and no way to
refrigerate perishable deliveries.

Whom should I contact if I have questions?

Many questions are answered in the FAQs posted at:
**pratt.duke.edu/about/news/covid19/reopen-labs-faq**. For additional
questions:

  * The Pratt Facilities team will be on site between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m.
    weekdays. You may contact Ben LoCascio (719-250-6866), Kevin Wood
    (919-667-4611), or Mitchell Vann (919-452-6221) by email or the listed
    mobile numbers.
  * If you have a question related to Duke research policies, please contact
    me at george.truskey@duke.edu.

Thank you for following these guidelines to protect everyone’s health and
safety as we reopen labs for research.

**George A. Truskey**  
Sr. Associate Dean

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

