

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Message to Master of Engineering (MEM) Students-Campus Program

_March 17, 2020_

MEM Students,

We hope you are doing well as we all work to adjust to the COVID-19 situation.
We know you may have many questions and concerns, and wanted to reach out with
some updates and resources.

Our first priority is your well-being, and we urge you to take the appropriate
precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 (see CDC recommendations).

One recommended precaution is social distancing to limit face-to-face
interactions to minimize the potential spread of COVID-19. As a result,

  * You should not be coming to campus
  * You should hold your team meetings using online collaboration tools
  * You should refrain from hosting or participating in gatherings off campus

As you plan your activities, think about ways to limit your exposure to large
numbers of individuals at close distances and when you do interact, take the
appropriate precautions. I did want to mention that Carolyn is exploring ways
to virtually engage and develop community. Please be on the lookout for
communications from her.

Note: If you are still local and suspect you may have COVID-19, you should
contact Student Health at 919-681-9355, option 2 and ask to speak to a triage
nurse.

## Class Schedules

Pratt classes will resume in an online-only format on March 23, 2020. Please
be aware that Fuqua, Law and Nursing School classes will resume on March 16,
2020. If you are taking a Fuqua course, Canvas will be your source for updated
course information, and additional details will be available in the coming
days. Additionally, the final day of graduate classes will not change and is
April 15, 2020.

In order to implement remote instruction, each faculty member will determine
the format of their courses. Some may choose synchronous delivery, some
asynchronous, and some a combination of both. Your professor will communicate
to you the format and expectations for the class. Note that all synchronous
classes will meet at your regularly scheduled class time. **If you are in a
time zone that will make attendance difficult, please let your professor
know** so that they can make arrangements to record the class for you. Please
be patient as your faculty transition to this new instruction format.

## Remote Learning Support

Duke has launched coronavirus.duke.edu to support students in the transition
to remote learning. In particular, please prepare by accessing your Duke Zoom
account at oit.duke.edu/help/articles/zoom-meetings-getting-started

## Let Us Know Your Location

During this time of transition, it is valuable for us to know where you are.
If your local address or home address has changed, please make sure you update
it on Duke Hub.

Also, **if you are a Teaching Assistant (TA),** there are rules that govern
where you may work. You may only continue as a teaching assistant for the
remainder of the semester if you are physically located in North Carolina. If
you are not, please let Tracie Foust at tracie.foust@duke.edu know ASAP.

## Resources and Contacts

As I mentioned at the beginning of my note, our goal is to keep you safe and
to allow you to complete your academic studies. We appreciate your flexibility
in responding to this difficult situation.

You can find links to FAQs on the Pratt coronavirus webpage at
pratt.duke.edu/covid19. Please also be sure to check the Duke coronavirus
website for the latest information from the university.

If you have any questions or concerns or need support, please let us know—you
can email us at pratt-masters-studentservices@duke.edu.

Best Regards,

_Brad Fox, PhD_  
 _Associate Dean, Master's Programs_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

