

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Graduate and Post-Doc Guidance: Returning to Labs

Dear Pratt doctoral students and postdoctoral fellows,

We write to share with you a new video message from Provost Kornbluth as well
as a Q&A prepared by the Office of the Vice President for Research for
graduate and postdoctoral researchers returning to labs.

Some of these points were discussed at today’s Pratt Town Hall, where we also
collected additional questions that we will add to the Pratt-specific FAQs
posted online at pratt.duke.edu/covid19/reopen-labs-faq.

Please look for more details soon, and in the meantime, please read the
important message below for more information and helpful resources.

Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering  
George Truskey, Sr. Associate Dean

_Video message from Provost Kornbluth: Guidelines for Returning to Duke Labs_

As we open more of our laboratories, we wish to address some of the questions
we’ve heard from students and postdoctoral fellows. We know that you are eager
to resume your research, and we are equally eager to see Duke’s research
enterprise resume operations with modifications as outlined below. We also
understand that opening additional laboratories is not entirely without risk.
We therefore write to let you know that safeguarding your health and safety is
the **top priority**. Accordingly, we are instituting an array of measures
which are informed by our infection control team and safety experts. These
have been designed to reduce our risks as we re-enter laboratories, and
ultimately, other workspaces across the university, as described below:

  * A daily online symptom screening system to be completed before coming to
    work
  * A robust symptom-based testing program for our workforce
  * Installation of hand sanitizer stations throughout our buildings
  * Provision of face masks for those who don’t have their own
  * Controlled access to buildings in order to reduce the density of people
    and facilitate social distancing
  * Clear instructions tailored for each school, posted online and constantly
    updated to describe any changes, should they occur.
  * Mapping out of common spaces to show 6ft distances
  * Clear signs in common areas indicating safety guidelines
  * Frequent walkthrough of labs by departmental leaders assigned to buildings

Carefully observing these measures will help to protect you. If you
nonetheless show any symptoms of COVID-19, believe you have been exposed to
the virus or have additional health concerns or questions about COVID-19,
please contact student health (students) at 919-681-9355 or employee health
(employees) at 919-684-3136. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you are
required to self-quarantine for 14 days in your own home to protect your
colleagues from further exposure. Please do not hesitate to contact student
health (students) or employee health (postdocs) at any time.

We have prepared a list of frequently asked questions regarding the reopening
process and safety measures that must be observed. If you believe that your
co-workers or colleagues are not observing the safety measures put into place,
please contact the anonymous hotline at 1-800-826-8109 (24 hours a day, 7 days
a week) or oarc.duke.edu.

This is a challenging time for everyone, especially as we return to activities
that once seemed routine and may now feel unsafe. Should you need help, please
don’t hesitate to reach out to your advisor, your DGS, or to any of the
services listed below.

  * DukeReach: 919-681-2455 or dukereach@duke.edu
  * Duke CAPS: 919-660-1000; after 5 PM on-call mental health support service:
    919-966-3820
  * Duke PAS: pas.duke.edu/about/counseling-services/online-counseling-
    services
  * Mental telehealth bluedevilscare.duke.edu **.** Register once using the
    service key DUKE2020
  * Duke student assistance fund

Please know that our principal focus is your health and safety as we seek to
resume the important research to which you have devoted your education and
your careers.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

