

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Update on Restarting the Research Buildings

_June 15, 2020_

Dear Pratt faculty, staff and trainees involved in the research mission:

The university began to re-open research buildings on campus and two major
downtown research facilities (Carmichael and Chesterfield) in mid-May,
utilizing a phased re-opening. All research buildings have been reopened and
our research labs in clinical locations are being opened now, with the
following measures undertaken to minimize the potential spread of COVID-19:

  * All labs were required to submit plans which adhered to published
    Operating Guidelines including mandatory masking inside the buildings,
    physical distancing, reduced in-person interactions, frequent hand-
    washing, and symptom monitoring via a daily survey.
  * Hand sanitizer stations were installed in all areas identified by the
    Occupational and Environmental Safety Office.
  * Our important colleagues in Environmental Services have worked with us on
    changes to cleaning procedures, including restocking sanitizer stations.
    Cleaning as often as we need to is now a “team sport”, especially in
    common areas.
  * Loading dock receiving is currently coordinated by rotating departmental
    personnel in each building, as we’ve moved back to lab-specific receiving
    and away from the Golden Street central solution.

We are extremely appreciative of the cooperation of our faculty, staff and
trainees – adherence to the Guidelines has been excellent, and we have thus
far had no confirmed positive cases in the research areas since April, and no
cases of workplace transmission. The gradual ramping back up of lab activity
in the research buildings is going well, and we expect this to continue in the
weeks ahead, within constraints of the spacing requirements outlined in the
Operating Guidelines. Reopening of additional offices and buildings is
primarily limited by constraints with Employee Health resources and sanitizing
supplies for buildings with large numbers of employees. We expect that if the
current positive trends continue, that in July faculty will be able to return
to their offices to work, with doors closed.

It is important to note that our ability to increase our occupancy of
buildings for the research mission, and our ability to _maintain_ occupancy,
depends on our willingness to remain diligent with masking, distancing and
appropriate hygiene measures. This means our preventative measures are more
important than ever, including the use of the on-line prescreening system.
This system allows us to quickly identify individuals who need to be tested,
and then in conjunction with the badge access data we can do efficient contact
tracing. It is also your direct link to Employee Health for your screening and
testing, should that be necessary. We will be contacting those labs in which
individuals appear to not to be completing the health checks, so that we can
reach 100% compliance.

We hope and work for 100% adherence to our Operating Principles. However, in
the event you are aware of instances of non-compliance, please address them
with your supervisor, department leadership, or building coordinator. If that
is not possible or if you still have concerns, contact the Duke Speak Up
Program. This anonymous hotline is available 24/7 at 1-800-826-8109, or visit
the Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance website to submit the online form.

As of the date of this letter, hospitalizations statewide are at or near an
all-time peak, and the percentage of positive tests in North Carolina are
among the highest in the nation. For this reason, we must not let our guard
down. If we maintain diligent use of masking, hand washing and physical
distancing, we will continue to make excellent progress in our important
research mission.

George A. Truskey, Senior Associate Dean, Pratt School of Engineering  
Lawrence Carin, Vice President for Research

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

