

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Proposal: Zoom-Free Fridays

_May 5, 2020_

Dear colleagues:

We are so proud of you! We recognize that the days since March 10, when Duke’s
COVID-19 response policies were announced, have not been easy ones for you or
your loved ones.

And, we know that working remotely has created additional stressors, including
caring for children while trying to work, feelings of isolation and running
out of things to watch on Netflix. There have been a lot of new things to
adjust to.

But long before March 10, it was important for us to take care of each other
and for each of us to take good care of ourselves. That commitment to well-
being continues. And now, it’s more important than ever.

Pratt’s senior leadership can’t remove all the new stresses, but together we
can innovate ways to address and hopefully reduce them.

In this email, we’ll propose an idea that we’d like everyone to try, starting
this week. And, at the end of this message, we provide more ideas and
resources that we encourage you to consider.

A new stress: high-intensity virtual connecting

A new stress in these times is called “high-intensity virtual connecting.”
This 21st-century type of social exhaustion comes from using online video
meeting systems such as Zoom and WebEx frequently while isolated at home.

Last month Susanne Degas-White, PhD, wrote onPsychologyToday.com that using
Zoom a lot while quarantined at home can “zap our energy and our brains and
beat down our bodies.” We recognize that working from home these days can be
more complicated than working from the office, classroom or lab.

**To help reduce this stress, we are encouraging a new approach—Zoom-Free
Fridays.**

As a first step, the Dean’s Office team is committing to not scheduling or
asking for participation in school-based Zoom meetings on Fridays.

Friday, then, can be a day for us all to catch up on our work. Zoom-Free
Friday isn’t time off, but a way to protect our valuable time and reduce the
stress that can be caused by high-intensity virtual connecting.

This is not mandatory. We recognize there will be times when virtual meetings
on Fridays for your team are unavoidable. But we encourage you to see if this
idea could work for you and your team.

As your colleagues, we recognize this new work environment includes new
stressors. We hope Zoom-Free Fridays can help. Let us know how it goes.

More ideas to de-stress zoom

  * **Call into some virtual meetings or turn off your video**. It can be less
    stressful to “show up” in voice-only. As a team, decide that it’s OK if
    colleagues want occasionally not to be on video. Your strained eyes and
    the muscles you use for that “attentive participant face” may likely thank
    you.
  * **Try not to schedule meetings back-to-back**. Give your brain a chance to
    switch gears and rest from intensive virtual connecting.
  * **Take short breaks from the screen.** Some fresh air, drinking a glass of
    water, jumping jacks or a brisk 10-minute walk may help to reduce stress.
  * **Avoid ‘Double Screen Duty.’** Focus on listening. Instead of giving some
    of your attention to a second screen, take notes with paper and pen. In a
    2016 Princeton-UCLA study, students who took notes by hand had better
    retention than those who typed notes.
  * **Make your home office feel different from your living area.** It can be
    done, even if it’s all the same space. If you can’t close the door behind
    you when you go “off the clock,” how about changing the lighting and the
    playlist? These cues may help create a supportive “boundary” between work
    and home life.

Additional well-being resources to check out

  * Check out the well-being content onkeepworking.duke.edu
  * Follow the tips on the Twitter account ofWellness4Researchers (That team
    includes MEMS’ Shreyas Hegde)
  * During your short breaks, take a brief virtual tour of a museum or
    national park
  * Watch the Duke Wellness video “Fitting in Fitness”
  * Listen to an episode of 3-minute mediation podcasts with Dr. Carrie Adair
    of the Duke Center for Health Care Safety & Quality

In sum, we want you to know that Pratt cares about you and your loved ones. We
are a team.

Thank you and Go Duke Engineering!

—Susan

Susan L. Bonifield  
Senior Associate Dean, Finance & Administration  
susan.bonifield@duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

