

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate » For Current Grad Students » Graduate Communications and
Intercultural Programs

# Graduate Communications and Intercultural Programs Team

## Sue Mathias

Director

Sue Mathias is the director of the GCIP team. She works with graduate
students, helping them with oral and written English proficiency, and coaching
international students who are adjusting academically and socially to life at
Duke.

She has taught English as a Second Language (ESL) and worked with graduate
students since 2002. Sue received a Bachelor of Science in Finance with a
minor in Japanese from Pennsylvania State University before spending a year at
Sophia University in Tokyo on a Rotary scholarship.

After working in finance for a decade, Sue earned a Master of Arts in Teaching
ESL and a Master of Education in Curriculum and Instruction at Penn State,
where she focused on foreign language education.

Contact: susan.mathias@duke.edu

* * *

## Angus Bowers

Communications Consultant

Angus Bowers joined Duke University as a communications consultant in late
2018. He brings over 11 years of teaching experience to the Graduate
Communications and Intercultural Programs.

He comes from teaching English as a Second Language (ESL) at Wake Technical
Community College and from the Intensive English Program at North Carolina
State University. In addition, Angus has trained ESL teachers as a faculty
member of the ESL Teacher Certificate program at Wake Technical Community
College.

He received a Monbukagakusho Research Grant from the Japanese Government to
complete a master’s degree in Social Anthropology from the London School of
Economics and Political Science, and has an Master of Arts in English
Linguistics from NC State.

Angus has lived in France, Japan, and the United Kingdom for extended periods
of time. He was recently awarded a grant from the Partners of the Americas to
train English teachers in Bolivia.

Contact: angus.bowers@duke.edu

* * *

## Patty Carroll

Communications Consultant

Before coming to Duke, Patty taught at the Rossier School of Education at the
University of Southern California. She has also served in leadership at
nonprofit organizations and teacher preparation programs across the United
States to broaden educational access and equity for all students.

Additionally, she has been a Pre-K-12 mentor teacher and has taught English as
an additional language in California, Hungary, and Russia.

Patty earned a PhD in Special Education and an MEd from the University of
California at Los Angeles. Her research has been published in _Language
Testing_ , _Review of Research in Education_ , and _Journal of Learning
Disabilities_.

She earned her Master of Arts in TESOL and secondary English teaching
credential from California State University, Los Angeles.

Contact: patricia.carroll@duke.edu

* * *

## Allison McIntyre

Communications Consultant

When Allison came to the Pratt School of Engineering in 2022, she brought with
her more than 23 years of teaching experience.

She started her career as a member of the U.S. Peace Corps. She served for two
years in Papua New Guinea, where she taught high school English. She then
started and built an ESL program at a middle school in Raleigh, where she
worked with international students for eight years before moving to Wake
Technical Community College.

For the past 13 years, Allison has worked with students from all over the
world in a number of capacities at Wake Tech. She has also worked privately
for three years as a one-on-one coach helping international students improve
their English proficiency.

She earned a Bachelor of Arts in English Literature at Texas A&M University
and an English as a Second Language and Secondary English license at the
University of Texas at Dallas. Allison enjoys doing yoga, playing tennis,
reading, gardening and spending time with her friends and her three children.

Contact: allison.mcintyre@duke.edu

* * *

## Marcie Pachino

Communications Consultant

Marcie Pachino started working as a Communications Consultant at the Graduate
Communications Center in 2018.

Prior to this, she taught English as a second language (ESL) to international
high school students in the Durham Public Schools for 29 years. Marcie has
also taught ESL strategies to graduate students in Duke’s Master of Arts in
Teaching program.

She earned her Bachelor of Arts in history at Duke, her Master of Arts in
Teaching at the School for International Training, and her North Carolina
Teaching License at North Carolina Central University. Marcie speaks Spanish,
and now that she is at Duke Engineering, she hopes to remember some Chinese
she learned as a Duke undergrad. In her free time, Marcie enjoys reading
fiction, seeing movies, traveling domestically and internationally, and
spending time with friends and family.

Contact: marcie.pachino@duke.edu

* * *

## Ilana Palmer

Communications Consultant

Ilana Palmer brings over 12 years of teaching experience to her work as a
Communications Consultant with the Graduate Communications Center. Prior to
joining the team at Duke, Ilana worked with international and domestic
students in the Wake County Public Schools and served as the lead teacher at
private school in Raleigh. For many years, she taught ESL as well as
supervised and mentored ESL teachers at Wake Technical Community College.

Ilana received her bachelor’s degree with honors in psychology from Harvard
University and earned a Master of Education in TESOL from Boston University.
She holds a Certificate of Social Work from the New York Academy of Medicine
and is currently pursuing certification as a Curriculum and Instructional
Specialist from Meredith College. Outside of work, Ilana loves spending time
with family, reading, gardening, and crafting. She lives in Raleigh with her
husband, son, two dogs, and nine chickens.

Contact: ilana.palmer@duke.edu

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

