

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Podcast

# Safe Hygiene for Everyone, Period

October 1, 2020

Women and girls* are disproportionately affected when access to safely managed
sanitation is lacking. Duke ECE engineer Sonia Grego wants to change that.

## Listen

## Transcript

Intro music: purple-planet.com

Miranda: They kill crops.  
They kill bees.  
They drive dogs mad.  
They’re incapable of logical thought, yet they can dull your knife or your ax
or your saw with a single glance.  
They’re women… on their periods.  
That’s according to all kinds of cultural myths about menstruating women from
all around the world, anyway.

Miranda: So I started to think about, what were these menstruating women myths
in the United States, and I remembered one thing I had always heard, which was
that you shouldn’t go to the beach on your period because the sharks will
smell your blood—

(Sonia laughs)

—and you’ll get attacked. And I actually didn’t know whether that was true, I
had to Google it! And of course it is not true, it’s just one of these crazy
cultural myths. But I know you grew up in Italy, and I was wondering if you
had any of those.

Sonia: Yes.

Miranda: What are they?

Sonia: So the myths are—In Italy, where I grew up, women typically do a lot of
canned jam, canned goods. You cannot be a part of the canning of goods if you
have a period, because it will go bad.

Miranda: This is Rate of Change, a podcast from Duke Engineering dedicated to
the ingenious ways engineers are solving society’s toughest problems. I’m
Miranda Volborth. In this episode I’m talking with an engineer from Duke’s
Center for Water, Sanitation, Hygiene, and Infectious Disease, or WaSH-AID—

Sonia: My name is Sonia Grego, I am an associate research professor at the
Duke Center for WaSH-AID, and the department of electrical and computer
engineering. And I am leading projects in the space of sanitation and
engineered solutions for sanitation.

Miranda: WaSH-AID works on a range of projects related to global sanitation,
human health, and the environment—including the Reinvent the Toilet Challenge,
funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Through this project, WaSH-
AID is working to serve communities around the world that have inadequate or
no access to sanitation. Depending on how you define the standards you want to
raise everybody to, that’s somewhere between 2.3 and 4.2 billion people. Sonia
oversees field testing of new sanitation technologies in India. So, she’s seen
a lot of data about toilets—who uses them, when, and why, sometimes, they
don’t. That data has made it clear that lack of access disproportionately
affects women and girls.

Sonia: It is estimated that as many as 1/3 of schools globally lack proper
sanitation and menstrual hygiene facilities, and this has a huge impact on
sanitation. Now, in terms of gender equality, we all know that women need
education—that lack of education has detrimental impact in terms of their life
trajectory, in terms of income and quality of life. And it so happens that
young girls, after they have their first period, they start to drop out of
school or to lose one week per month. So this has a huge impact on their
ability of education, and if you think about it, the trajectory of a woman’s
life is degraded by the fact that there was not a proper place for her to
dispose of a menstrual pad, I—it’s a disgrace. It’s a problem that can and
should be solved. And the benefit would be so huge, in terms of education and
contribution to the work force. It’s such a neglected topic, yet it has such a
significant impact.

Miranda: The solution seems pretty straightforward. Why can’t toilet
facilities just add wastebaskets—right?

Sonia: So here in the US, we are lucky and we have wastebaskets in locations
but we also have a solid waste management system. We have people that collect
he waste and properly dispose of it. This is not available in developing
countries, there is not such a centralized service. And menstruation and
menstrual waste in particular also has these associated stigmas, so disposal
of it is a much-neglected task. There are no central services, it gets buried
or burned on the premises, which is both an environmental and a health
concern. So the intent for the center for WaSH-AID was to provide a
comprehensive sanitation solution for users, and technologies that deal with
sanitation for women need to include a solution for waste—for menstrual waste
disposal.

Miranda: Enter the S.H.E. unit—Safe Hygiene for Everyone. It’s a small, clean-
burning incinerator. The aim is to make the S.H.E. unit the size of a small
wastebasket, so it can fit in a women’s toilet. It has a door where you drop
your used pads, and it’s a co-fire process, meaning that you mix two fuel
types—propane gas, commonly used for stoves, and the pads themselves. It
achieves a very high temperature that ensures complete combustion. And it’s a
very clean conversion, resulting in mostly CO2 and water. What’s left is a
very small amount of ash—that still has to be disposed of.

Sonia: The concern with all incinerators is their potential for air pollution.
You don’t want to trade an environmental pollution threat with another one.
And so that was the genesis of our technology and why we are using a process
designed to reach a high temperature and therefore better control the
emissions. And we are conducting measurements here in the US to ensure that
these conditions are met.

Miranda: Here’s the thing. For the unit to operate effectively, the WaSH-AID
engineers have to know the characteristics of the materials that are being
disposed of. What are the pads made of—paper, cloth? Are they commercial, are
they homemade? How frequently do women change their pads? Because that affects
how easily they burn. The risk of an incomplete burn is that the unit might
produce a ton of smoke, and pathogens might survive. So Sonia made a big ask
of her team in India: to collect menstrual waste and characterize it. I asked
her how the team reacted.

Sonia: I was very surprised when the ask was, “Well, we need to characterize
the contents of this, you know, menstrual waste basket.” However, that request
came after we had already done education with the women on the importance of
safe menstrual hygiene practices and how if women don’t change their pads
often enough they get urinary tract infections and other diseases. So we had
already established the practice that we needed trash bins in every toilet
stall, and we have a caretaker that disposes of it and we had the education.
This topic of the menstrual hygiene safety had been discussed with the team,
but as I said it is still a majority of men engineers, young men, just out of
school with a high education that already they are doing a job which are
challenging because they are sampling toilet effluent right then and there.
And then transforming it into pathogen-free water, ready for reuse, which is a
fantastic thing, but they need to analyze the raw material, which is quite
unpleasant. But at least that’s part of a civil engineer’s work. The menstrual
waste, that was completely new, and I very shyly suggested—or indicated—that
that was something we needed to do in preparation for the testing of the
disposal technology. And they did not bat an eye. And it was not only the
woman engineer, but she and a couple of male engineers who provided the data
for the spreadsheet. And they did not bat an eye. So I was pretty pleased.

Miranda: I read something the other day, just in the paper, that Scotland was
going to have free menstrual products for everybody. What do you think about
that?

Sonia: I think that access to pads in critical. I mean, as a woman, you know
that the horror is to have your period being someplace and not having access
to a pad. That is the nightmare for women in that period of our lives. So I
think it is extremely forward thinking to have free sanitary pads and tampons
available in toilets everywhere. Some of these products actually even undergo
luxury tax. In India there was quite a movement against removal of the luxury
tax. They were considered like a perfume, something people choose. Well, they
are essential. So yes, availability of pads is a key right.

Miranda: I think the US has tax on menstrual absorbents, doesn’t it? I think
it—I’ll fact-check that.

Miranda: I did look into this issue and here’s what I learned: taxes on
menstrual absorbents vary by state. Thirty-five states collect sales tax on
them. North Carolina, in fact, makes $7.8 million on these products every
year. In Colorado, parts for private jets are not taxed, but period products
are. In Idaho, treatments for hair loss are not taxed, but period products
are. Tampons and pads are not optional, they’re necessities, like groceries or
medicine. This kind of sex-based discriminatory pricing is called a “pink
tax.”

Miranda: Another thing that strikes me is funny is that when I first started
working at Duke, I noticed that a lot of the dispensers are free—you could
just get a tampon or sanitary pad if you needed one. But I also noticed that
the tampons were always empty.

Sonia: Yes! It’s always—yes, I’ve noticed that, too. So it is true that if
good are—if dispensers are free, they may be emptied by hoarders. However, not
withstanding what user behavior is, widespread availability and access to
high-quality disposable pads is an unmet need.

Miranda: And it is almost exclusively sanitary pads in the places where you’re
testing these technologies, right?

Sonia: Yes, that is—well. Well, well… we found a great prevalence of sanitary
napkins that are commercial and disposable, but in one of the sites we also
found a 10% prevalence in the use of cloth. These are rags. You know, like
house rags that are used for this purpose, rewashed, and reused. This is a
practice that comes from lack of access to these resources and due to the cost
of commercial pads that the poorest people cannot afford. Again, because these
are rewashed and then need to dry properly before you can reuse them, which
you can also hardly do with discretion, this is associated with a series of
health concerns.

Miranda: Here’s the other thing: the solution that this team of engineers is
developing has to be affordable, as well as safe and healthy, because the
alternative is free: just continuing to dump used pads into toilets, out in
fields, or throwing them into rivers or streams, where they disperse
pathogens. Or, burning them openly, where they release toxic chemicals into
the air.

Sonia: For this unit we are targeting a price cost which is of the order of
$500, plus-minus. It’s still fancier than the price of existing incinerators.
Still, even existing incinerators are very little-used. As I said, in my
experience, even the trash can is hardly available in a women’s toilet—that is
a public facility, not a fancy one. So I think there is a need for a
sensitization of the public to the needs of women in the space of sanitation
and menstrual hygiene. The fact that you provide a bathroom that has running
water is not enough for women users, for the reasons we have described. So I
feel that overall, an education and sensitization campaign of a topic that is
considered “shhh”—something people don’t talk about—is needed, so that this
crucial feature is included in the budget of whoever provides the sanitation
solution. We are all convinced that in terms of engineering solutions for
human needs, these types of work we’re doing is the most likely—certainly in
my career—that I have done that has the impact of changing life and improving
health, at a scale that I cannot imagine. So I am a small cog in a big wheel,
but this is the most significant work that I’ve done in my career, and I think
that many of my colleagues think the same.

Miranda: Sonia would like everyone listening to know that May 28th is World
Menstrual Hygiene Day—a day dedicated to breaking period stigma, dispelling
shame and prioritizing the needs of women and girls. So mark your calendar for
next May 28th, and celebrate World Menstrual Hygiene Day by having a slice of
cake… or going to the beach on your period… or canning something… or even
indulging in a little light beekeeping.

Thanks for listening. Subscribe for updates from Duke Engineering, and if you
learned something from this podcast, please share it with others.

*We are aware that menstruation can be a source of stress and induce dysphoria
for people outside of the gender binary; not everyone who menstruates
identifies as a woman or girl, and some who do identify as women and girls do
not menstruate. Language around this topic is still evolving.

## Featured Faculty

### Sonia Grego

Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

View profile »

Subscribe to the _**Rate of Change**_ podcast in Apple Podcasts or Google
Play:

_The Apple logo is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Google Podcasts and the Google Podcasts logo are trademarks of
Google LLC._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

