Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Aaron D. Franklin

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Addy Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Dr. Aaron Franklin received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Purdue
University in 2008 and then spent six years on the research staff at the IBM
T. J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, NY. His work at IBM focused
on low-dimensional nanoelectronics with specific emphasis on carbon nanotube
(CNT) transistors, including device scaling, transport studies, and diverse
integration approaches. While at IBM, Dr. Franklin was awarded an Outstanding
Technical Achievement recognition for his work on nanoscale CNT transistors.
He was also involved in many other projects with applications including
photovoltaics, thin-film transistors, and supercapacitors. Dr. Franklin joined
the Duke faculty in 2014.  
  
Research in the Franklin group is focused on improving the performance and
functionality of nanomaterial-enabled electronic devices. This includes high-
performance devices from low-dimensional materials, such as 2D semiconductors,
1D carbon nanotubes, and nanowires. Also included is the low-cost realm of
printed electronics, which benefits from the incorporation of nanomaterials to
enhance electrical transport over large printed features, along with other
application-specific advantages. The primary drive of the Franklin group's
research is to improve performance of, and expand applications for, electronic
devices, including those with more custom form factors and/or functionality
(e.g., flexibility, transparency, biocompatibility, recyclability). A growing
thrust in the lab is the application of ultrasensitive, inexpensively
processed nanomaterials to electronic biosensing applications. There is an
increasing variety of new electronics applications that nanomaterials are
uniquely capable of enabling -- the Franklin group works to make such
applications possible.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Addy Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Associate Dean for Doctoral Education in the Pratt School of Engineering
  * Professor of Chemistry

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3473 Fitzpatrick CIEMAS, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 681-9471
  * **Email Address:** aaron.franklin@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Group Website

## Education

  * B.S.E. Arizona State University, 2004
  * Ph.D. Purdue University, 2008

## Research Interests

Nanomaterials in electronic devices, nanofabrication, printed electronics and
internet of things (IoT), biosensing

## Courses Taught

  * CHEM 611: Foundations of Nanoscale Science and Technology
  * ECE 230L9: Introduction to Microelectronic Devices and Circuits-Lab
  * ECE 230L: Introduction to Microelectronic Devices and Circuits
  * ECE 291: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 391: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 493: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 494: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 511: Foundations of Nanoscale Science and Technology
  * ECE 512: Emerging Nanoelectronic Devices
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * EGR 790: Special Topics in Engineering
  * NANOSCI 511: Foundations of Nanoscale Science and Technology

## In the News

  * Engineering a More Environmentally Friendly Future for the Electronics
    Industry (Apr 11, 2023 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Printed Electronics: It's For Material as Soft as Your Skin (Oct 3, 2019 |
    Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Energy Initiative Awards Seven New Seed Grants (Apr 28, 2017)
  * Aaron Franklin: Replacing Silicon Electronics with Nanomaterials (Sep 15,
    2014 | Pratt School of Engineering)

## Representative Publications

  * Cardenas, J. A., H. Tsang, H. Tong, H. Abuzaid, K. Price, M. A. Cruz, B.
    J. Wiley, A. D. Franklin, and N. Lazarus. “Flash ablation metallization of
    conductive thermoplastics.” Additive Manufacturing 36 (December 1, 2020).
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.addma.2020.101409.
  * Lu, Shiheng, Joanne Zheng, Jorge A. Cardenas, Nicholas X. Williams, Yuh-
    Chen Lin, and Aaron D. Franklin. “Uniform and Stable Aerosol Jet Printing
    of Carbon Nanotube Thin-Film Transistors by Ink Temperature Control.” Acs
    Applied Materials & Interfaces 12, no. 38 (September 2020): 43083–89.
    https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c12046.
  * Williams, Nicholas X., Nathan Watson, Daniel Y. Joh, Ashutosh Chilkoti,
    and Aaron D. Franklin. “Aerosol jet printing of biological inks by
    ultrasonic delivery.” Biofabrication 12, no. 2 (February 2020): 025004.
    https://doi.org/10.1088/1758-5090/ab5cf5.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

