Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Blake Shaw Wilson

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Head and Neck Surgery & Communication
Sciences

Prof. Wilson is the Director of the Duke Hearing Center and is an Adjunct or
Consulting Professor in each of three departments at Duke: Head and Neck
Surgery & Communication Sciences, Biomedical Engineering, and Electrical and
Computer Engineering. He has been involved in the development of the cochlear
implant (CI) for four decades and is the inventor of many of the signal
processing strategies used with the present-day CIs. One of his papers, in the
journal Nature, is the most highly cited publication in the principal field of
CIs. He also has become keenly interested in global hearing healthcare and
presently is the Chair of the Lancet Commission on Hearing Loss. He or he and
his teams or colleagues have been recognized with a high number of awards and
honors, including the 2015 Russ Prize, “for engineering cochlear implants that
allow the deaf to hear,” and the 2013 Lasker~DeBakey Award, “for the
development of the modern cochlear implant – a device that bestows hearing to
individuals with profound deafness.” The Russ Prize is the world’s top honor
for bioengineering and the Lasker Awards are second only to the Nobel Prize in
Physiology or Medicine for recognizing advances in medicine and medical
science. Prof. Wilson is a recipient of the Distinguished Alumni Award from
the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke (in 2007) and from the University as a
whole (in 2019; the 42nd recipient of that Award). Additionally, he is a
member of the USA’s National Academy of Engineering and is a Fellow of the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the Acoustical Society of
America, and the National Academy of Inventors.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Professor in the Department of Head and Neck Surgery &
    Communication Sciences
  * Scholar in Residence in the Pratt School of Engineering
  * Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Consulting Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Affiliate, Duke Global Health Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 2410 Wrightwood Ave., Durham, NC 27710
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 475-6135
  * **Email Address:** blake.wilson@duke.edu

## Education

  * B.S.E.E. Duke University, 1974
  * D.Sc. University of Warwick (United Kingdom), 2013
  * D.Eng. University of Technology Sydney (Australia), 2014
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 2015

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Honorary Alumni Award. Duke University School of Medicine. 2022
  * North Carolina Award for Science. North Carolina General Assembly. 2021
  * Distinguished Alumni Award. Duke University. 2019
  * Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors. National Academy of
    Inventors. 2019
  * Fellow (NAI). National Academy of Inventors. 2019
  * Election to the National Academy of Engineering. National Academy of
    Engineering. 2017
  * Helmholtz-Rayleigh Interdisciplinary Silver Medal in Psychological &
    Physiological Acoustics, Speech Communication, and Signal Processing in
    Acoustics. Acoustical Society of America. 2017
  * Lifetime Achievement Award. 15th Annual International Conference on
    Cochlear Implants and Other Implantable Auditory Technologies. 2017
  * C. Paul and Beth K. Stocker Lecture. Fritz J. and Dolores H. Russ College
    of Engineering and Technology and the Robe Leadership Institute at Ohio
    University, Athens, OH, USA. 2016
  * Distinguished BME Lecture. The Department of Biomedical Engineering,
    University of California at Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA. 2016
  * Distinguished Research in the Field. Duke Graduate Program in Electrical
    and Computer Engineering. 2016
  * Eduard Rhein Technology Award. Eduard Rhein Foundation. 2016
  * Guest of Honor, 149th Annual Meeting of the American Otological Society,
    Chicago, IL, USA. American Otological Society. 2016
  * Fellow of the Acoustical Society of America. Acoustical Society of
    America. 2016
  * Duke Engineering 75th Anniversary Lecture. Duke University Office of
    Provost; Duke University Pratt School of Engineering; and Duke University
    School of Medcine. 2015
  * Graham Fraser Memorial Lecture. Graham Fraser Foundation, London, UK. 2015
  * Guest of Honor, 4th Munich LMU Hearing Implant Symposium 2015: Hearing
    Implants Around the World, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich,
    Germany. The conference organizers. 2015
  * Honorary Doctorate in Medicine. University of Salamanca in Salamanca,
    Spain. 2015
  * Honorary Doctorate in Medicine. Uppsala University in Uppsala, Sweden.
    2015
  * RTI Fellows Distinguished Lecture. RTI International, Research Triangle
    Park, NC, USA. 2015
  * The Fritz J. and Dolores H. Russ Prize. National Academy of Engineering.
    2015
  * The Gold Medal of the Paul Sabatier University. The Paul Sabatier
    University in Toulouse, France. 2015
  * 2014 Lasker Lecture, presented at the Keck School of Medicine, University
    of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. The Lasker Foundation. 2014
  * Bull City Hall of Fame. Chamber of Commerce, Durham, NC, USA. 2014
  * Göttingen Sensory Lecture. Georg-August-Universität Göttingen, Göttingen,
    Germany. 2014
  * Hopkins Medicine Distinguished Speaker Lecture. Johns Hopkins University
    School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. 2014
  * Life Fellow of the IEEE. Institute of Electrical and Electronics
    Engineers. 2014
  * Vanderbilt University Medical Center Flexner Discovery Lecture. Vanderbilt
    University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA. 2014
  * Chandra Sekhar Lecture. The Chandra Sekhar Fund and the New York
    University School of Medicine, NYU Langone Medical Center, New York, NY,
    USA. 2013
  * Commendation of the American Cochlear Implant Alliance. American Cochlear
    Implant Alliance. 2013
  * Lasker~DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award. Lasker Foundation. 2013
  * Scholar in Residence, Pratt School of Engineering. Duke University. 2013
  * Co-Chair, with Co-Chair Christoph von Ilberg, M.D., of the Presbycusis
    Research Meeting, Munich, Germany. The conference sponsors. 2012
  * Dean’s Leadership in Innovation Seminar. Faculty of Engineering and
    Information Technology, University of Technology, Sydney, Sydney,
    Australia. 2011
  * Guest of Honor, Munich Hearing Implant Symposium: Reaching New Heights,
    Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, Germany. The conference
    organizers. 2011
  * Guest of Honor, Ninth European Symposium on Paediatric Cochlear
    Implantation, Warsaw, Poland. The conference organizers. 2009
  * One of Wilson's inventions was named as one of the four greatest
    inventions or discoveries in the 50-year history of the Research Triangle
    Park. Triangle Business Journal. 2009
  * Invitation to write the lead article for the special issue of the journal
    Hearing Research on Frontiers of Auditory Prosthesis Research:
    Implications for Clinical Practice. The editors for the special issue.
    2008
  * Neel Distinguished Research Lectureship. American Academy of
    Otolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery. 2008
  * Distinguished Alumnus Award. Pratt School of Engineering, Duke University.
    2007
  * Chair, with Co-Chair Michael F. Dorman, Ph.D., of the Hearing Preservation
    Workshop V, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. The conference organizers.
    2006
  * Guest of Honor, Meeting of the Clinical Otologic Research Team (CORT),
    Cal-Creek Ranch, near Santa Fe, NM, USA. The CORT. 2006
  * Guest of Honor, Naval Science & Technological Laboratory, Visakhapatnam,
    India. Indian Naval Science & Technological Laboratory, Visakhapatnam,
    India. 2006
  * Guest of Honor, Sixth Wullstein Symposium 2006: New Developments in
    Hearing Technology, Würzburg, Germany. The conference organizers. 2006
  * Guest of Honor, Workshop on the Present Status and Future Directions of
    Cochlear Implants, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea. Nano
    Bioelectronics & Systems Research Center, Seoul National University. 2006
  * Honorary member. Clinical Otologic Research Team (the CORT), USA. 2006
  * Special Guest of Honor, Ninth International Conference on Cochlear
    Implants and Related Sciences, Vienna, Austria. The conference organizers.
    2006
  * Guest of Honor, Annual Meeting of the British Cochlear Implant Group:
    Pushing the Boundaries of Cochlear Implantation, Birmingham, UK. British
    Cochlear Implant Group. 2005
  * Guest of Honor, Annual Nalli Family Day, The Hospital for Sick Children,
    University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. Nalli Family Fund. 2005
  * Guest of Honor, Hearing Preservation Workshop IV, Warsaw-Kajetany, Poland.
    The conference organizers. 2005
  * Nalli Family Distinguished Lecture. The Nalli Family Fund and the Hospital
    for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. 2005
  * Co-Chair, with Chair Peter S. Roland, M.D., of the Third Hearing
    Preservation Workshop, Dallas, TX, USA. The conference sponsors. 2004
  * Designation as a "Friend Forever" to the International Center of Hearing
    and Speech in Kajetany (near Warsaw), Poland. The International Center of
    Hearing and Speech, Kajetany, Poland. 2004
  * Guest of Honor, Fifth Wullstein Symposium on Bilateral Cochlear Implants
    and Binaural Signal Processing, Würzburg, Germany. The conference
    organizers. 2004
  * Special Guest, Eighth International Cochlear Implant Conference,
    Indianapolis, IN, USA. The conference organizers. 2004
  * Guest of Honor, Hearing Preservation Workshop II, Frankfurt, Germany. The
    conference organizers. 2003
  * Appointment as one of the first four Senior Fellows for RTI International,
    Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. RTI International. 2002
  * Co-Chair, with Chair Richard T. Miyamoto, M.D., of the Hearing
    Preservation Workshop, Indiana University School of Medicine,
    Indianapolis, IN, USA. The conference sponsors. 2002
  * Guest of Honor, Wullstein Symposium 2002 (3rd Conference on Bilateral
    Cochlear Implantation and Bilateral Signal Processing, 7th International
    Cochlear Implant Workshop, and 1st Workshop on Binaural Rehabilitation),
    Würzburg, Germany. The conference organizers. 2002
  * Honorary Member of the British Cochlear Implant Group. British Cochlear
    Implant Group. 2002
  * Guest of Honor, Wullstein Symposium (2nd Conference on Bilateral Cochlear
    Implantation and Bilateral Signal Processing, 6th International Cochlear
    Implant Workshop and 2nd Auditory Brainstem Implant (ABI) Workshop),
    Würzburg, Germany. The conference organizers. 2001
  * Guest of Honor, 5th International Cochlear Implant Workshop and 1st
    Auditory Brainstem Implant (ABI) Workshop, Würzburg, Germany. The
    conference organizers. 1999
  * Invitation to write a Guest Editorial in celebration of the 30th
    anniversary of the British Journal of Audiology. British Journal of
    Audiology. 1997
  * Presidential Citation for “Major contributions to the restoration of
    hearing in profoundly deaf persons,” on the occasion of the 130th Annual
    Meeting of the American Otological Society, Scottsdale, AZ, USA. American
    Otological Society. 1997
  * Discover Award for Technological Innovation . Discovery magazine. 1996
  * Guest of Honor, International Workshop on Cochlear Implants, Vienna,
    Austria. The conference organizers. 1996
  * Chair of the 1991 Conference on Implantable Auditory Prostheses, Pacific
    Grove, CA, USA. Election by peers. 1991

## In the News

  * Two Duke Scholars Received North Carolina's Highest Honor (Nov 15, 2021)
  * Nightingale, Wilson Elected Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors
    (Dec 6, 2019 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Global Health Discussion on Hearing Loss Coming to Duke and Duke-NUS (Oct
    21, 2019)
  * Alumni to Honor Two Faculty for Research, Teaching Advancements During
    Founders' Weekend (Aug 20, 2019)
  * Large-Scale, Collaborative Effort Could Help Ease Global Hearing Loss (Jul
    11, 2017 | Duke Health News)
  * Blake Wilson Elected to the National Academy of Engineering (Feb 10, 2017
    | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Blake Wilson on Engineering for the Hearing Impaired (Mar 17, 2015)
  * Duke in Pictures: Blake Wilson Marks Pratt's 75th Anniversary (Mar 6,
    2015)
  * Pratt to Celebrate 75th Anniversary with Address from Cochlear Implant
    Pioneer Blake Wilson (Feb 11, 2015)
  * Wilson Awarded National Academy of Engineering's Prestigious Russ Prize
    (Jan 7, 2015)
  * National Academy of Engineering Awards Wilson with The Russ Prize (Jan 7,
    2015 | Duke Today)
  * Blake Wilson Named 2015 IEEE Fellow (Dec 12, 2014)
  * Editorial: Duke scientist's contribution helps deaf children hear (Sep 16,
    2013 | News & Observer)
  * Lasker Awards for medical advances go to five scientists and Gateses (Sep
    9, 2013 | New York Times)
  * Lasker Honor for Cochlear Implant Pioneer Wilson (Sep 6, 2013)

## Representative Publications

  * Wilson, Blake S. “Getting a decent (but sparse) signal to the brain for
    users of cochlear implants.” Hear Res 322 (April 2015): 24–38.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heares.2014.11.009.
  * Wilson, Blake S. “Toward better representations of sound with cochlear
    implants.” Nat Med 19, no. 10 (October 2013): 1245–48.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/nm.3343.
  * Tucci, Debara, Michael H. Merson, and Blake S. Wilson. “A summary of the
    literature on global hearing impairment: current status and priorities for
    action.” Otol Neurotol 31, no. 1 (January 2010): 31–41.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/mao.0b013e3181c0eaec.
  * Wilson, Blake S., and Michael F. Dorman. “Cochlear implants: a remarkable
    past and a brilliant future.” Hear Res 242, no. 1–2 (August 2008): 3–21.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heares.2008.06.005.
  * Wilson, Blake S., and Michael F. Dorman. “Cochlear implants: current
    designs and future possibilities.” J Rehabil Res Dev 45, no. 5 (2008):
    695–730. https://doi.org/10.1682/jrrd.2007.10.0173.
  * Wilson, Blake S., and Michael F. Dorman. “The surprising performance of
    present-day cochlear implants.” Ieee Trans Biomed Eng 54, no. 6 Pt 1 (June
    2007): 969–72. https://doi.org/10.1109/TBME.2007.893505.
  * An, Soon Kwan, Se-Ik Park, Sang Beom Jun, Choong Jae Lee, Kyung Min Byun,
    Jung Hyun Sung, Blake S. Wilson, Stephen J. Rebscher, Seung Ha Oh, and
    Sung June Kim. “Design for a simplified cochlear implant system.” Ieee
    Trans Biomed Eng 54, no. 6 Pt 1 (June 2007): 973–82.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/TBME.2007.895372.
  * Wilson, Blake S., Reinhold Schatzer, Enrique A. Lopez-Poveda, Xiaoan Sun,
    Dewey T. Lawson, and Robert D. Wolford. “Two new directions in speech
    processor design for cochlear implants.” Ear Hear 26, no. 4 Suppl (August
    2005): 73S-81S. https://doi.org/10.1097/00003446-200508001-00009.
  * Wilson, Blake S., Dewey T. Lawson, Joachim M. Muller, Richard S. Tyler,
    and Jan Kiefer. “Cochlear implants: some likely next steps.” Annu Rev
    Biomed Eng 5 (2003): 207–49.
    https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.bioeng.5.040202.121645.
  * Rubinstein, J. T., B. S. Wilson, C. C. Finley, and P. J. Abbas.
    “Pseudospontaneous activity: stochastic independence of auditory nerve
    fibers with electrical stimulation.” Hear Res 127, no. 1–2 (January 1999):
    108–18. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0378-5955(98)00185-3.
  * Wilson, B. S., S. Rebscher, F. G. Zeng, R. V. Shannon, G. E. Loeb, D. T.
    Lawson, and M. Zerbi. “Design for an inexpensive but effective cochlear
    implant.” Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 118, no. 2 (February 1998): 235–41.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/S0194-5998(98)80022-3.
  * Wilson, B. S., C. C. Finley, D. T. Lawson, and M. Zerbi. “Temporal
    representations with cochlear implants.” Am J Otol 18, no. 6 Suppl
    (November 1997): S30–34.
  * Wilson, B. S. “The future of cochlear implants.” Br J Audiol 31, no. 4
    (August 1997): 205–25. https://doi.org/10.3109/03005369709076795.
  * Wilson, B. S., D. T. Lawson, M. Zerbi, C. C. Finley, and R. D. Wolford.
    “New processing strategies in cochlear implantation.” Am J Otol 16, no. 5
    (September 1995): 669–75.
  * Wilson, B. S., D. T. Lawson, C. C. Finley, and R. D. Wolford. “Importance
    of patient and processor variables in determining outcomes with cochlear
    implants.” J Speech Hear Res 36, no. 2 (April 1993): 373–79.
    https://doi.org/10.1044/jshr.3602.373.
  * Wilson, B. S., C. C. Finley, D. T. Lawson, R. D. Wolford, D. K. Eddington,
    and W. M. Rabinowitz. “Better speech recognition with cochlear implants.”
    Nature 352, no. 6332 (July 18, 1991): 236–38.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/352236a0.
  * Wilson, B. S., C. C. Finley, J. C. Farmer, D. T. Lawson, B. A. Weber, R.
    D. Wolford, P. D. Kenan, M. W. White, M. M. Merzenich, and R. A.
    Schindler. “Comparative studies of speech processing strategies for
    cochlear implants.” Laryngoscope 98, no. 10 (October 1988): 1069–77.
    https://doi.org/10.1288/00005537-198810000-00009.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

