Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# David R. Smith

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Dr. David R. Smith is currently the James B. Duke Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering Department at Duke University. He is also Director of the
Center for Metamaterials and Integrated Plasmonics at Duke and holds the
positions of Adjunct Associate Professor in the Physics Department at the
University of California, San Diego, and Visiting Professor of Physics at
Imperial College, London. Dr. Smith received his Ph.D. in 1994 in Physics from
the University of California, San Diego (UCSD). Dr. Smith's research interests
include the theory, simulation and characterization of unique electromagnetic
structures, including photonic crystals and metamaterials.

Smith is best known for his theoretical and experimental work on
electromagnetic metamaterials. Metamaterials are artificially structured
materials, whose electromagnetic properties can be tailored and tuned in ways
not easily accomplished with conventional materials. Smith has been at the
forefront in the development of numerical methods to design and characterize
metamaterials, and has also provided many of the key experiments that have
helped to illustrate the potential that metamaterials offer. Smith and his
colleagues at UCSD demonstrated the first left-handed (or negative index)
metamaterial at microwave frequencies in 2000--a material that had been
predicted theoretically more than thirty years prior by Russian physicist
Victor Veselago. No naturally occurring material or compound with a negative
index-of-refraction had ever been reported until this experiment. In 2001,
Smith and colleagues followed up with a second experiment confirming one of
Veselago's key conjectures: the 'reversal' of Snell's law. These two papers--
the first published in Physical Review Letters and the second in Science--
generated enormous interest throughout the community in the possibility of
metamaterials to extend and augment the properties of conventional materials.
Both papers have now been cited more than 3,000 times each.

Since those first metamaterial experiments, Smith has continued to study the
fundamentals and potential applications of negative index media and
metamaterials. In 2004, Smith began studying the potential of metamaterials as
a means to produce novel gradient index media. By varying the index-of-
refraction throughout a material, an entire class of optical elements (such as
lenses) can be formed. Smith showed that metamaterials could access a much
larger range of design space, since both the magnetic and the electric
properties could be graded independently. Smith and colleagues demonstrated
several versions of gradient index optics, an activity that continues in his
lab today. The introduction of controlled spatial gradients in the
electromagnetic properties of a metamaterial flows naturally into the broad
concept of transformation optics - a new electromagnetic design approach
proposed by Sir John Pendry in 2006. To illustrate of the novelty of this
design approach, Pendry, Schurig and Smith suggested in 2006 that an
'invisibility cloak' could be realized by a metamaterial implementation of a
transformation optical design. Later that same year, Smith's group at Duke
University reported the demonstration of a transformation optical designed
'invisibility cloak' at microwave frequencies. The concept of transformation
optics has since attracted the attention of the scientific community, and is
now a rapidly emerging sub-discipline in the field.

Smith's work on transformation optics has been featured in nearly every major
newspaper, including a cover story in USA Today, The New York Times, The
Chicago Tribune, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post and many more.
Smith and his work on cloaking have also been featured on television news
programs inlcuding The Today Show, Countdown with Keith Olbermann, Fox News,
CNN and MSNBC. Smith's work has also been highlighted in documentary programs
on The History Channel, The Discovery Channel, The Science Channel, the BBC
and others.

**Please also see Prof. Smith's personal website
athttp://people.ee.duke.edu/~drsmith for the most frequent updates.**

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
    Engineering
  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor of Physics
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 2527 CIEMAS Building, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5376
  * **Email Address:** drsmith@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * David R. Smith Research Group

## Education

  * B.S. University of California - San Diego, 1988
  * Ph.D. University of California - San Diego, 1994

## Research Interests

Theory, simulation and demonstration of novel electromagnetic metamaterials
across the spectrum, from microwave through optical. Applications of
metamaterials for antennas and imaging devices, with a focus on security
imaging and satellite imaging. General studies on advanced metamaterials and
plasmonics, including nonlinear optics, enhanced spontaneous emission,
negative refraction, transformation optics, electromagnetic cloaking, and many
other topics

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellow (NAI). National Academy of Inventors. 2016
  * Highly Cited Researcher. Thomson Reuters. 2014
  * Fellow. Optical Society of America. 2013
  * Descartes Prize for Research. European Union. 2008
  * Top 100 Science Accomplishments for 2006. Discover Magazine (Cloaking).
    2008
  * Top 50 Researchers. Scientific American. 2008
  * Top Ten Breakthroughs for 2003. Science Magazine (Negative Index
    Materials). 2008
  * Top Ten Breakthroughs for 2006. Science Magazine (Cloaking). 2008
  * Fellows. Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers. 1986

## Courses Taught

  * ECE 110L9: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering - Lab
  * ECE 110L: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 270DL: Fields and Waves: Fundamentals of Information Propagation
  * ECE 270L9: Fields and Waves: Fundamentals of Information Propagation (Lab)
  * ECE 291: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 391: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 495: Special Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 575: Microwave Electronic Circuits
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering

## In the News

  * Duke AI Security Screening Start-up Goes Public Via SPAC Deal (Mar 10,
    2021 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Using Microwave Patterns for a More Efficient Method to Identify Objects
    (Jan 15, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * A Crystal Ball for the Decade Ahead (Jan 9, 2020)
  * Global List of Highly Cited Puts Duke in Top Ten (Nov 19, 2019)
  * Duke Faculty Plentiful On ‘Highly Cited’ List (Nov 27, 2018)
  * Duke-Northrop Grumman Partnership Seeks to Unflatten Metamaterial Antennas
    (Sep 5, 2018 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Ricocheting Radio Waves Monitor the Tiniest Movements in a Room (Aug 6,
    2018 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Beyond Materials: From Invisibility Cloaks to Satellite Communications
    (Mar 26, 2018 | Duke Stories)
  * David Smith on How Invisibility Is No Longer the Stuff of Science Fiction
    (Oct 23, 2017)
  * Three Duke Researchers Named To National Academy Of Inventors (Dec 12,
    2016)
  * Proposed wireless charging station would make dead batteries 'a thing of
    the past' (Oct 24, 2016 | GeekWire)
  * Four Pratt Faculty Among "Most Highly Cited" (Jan 21, 2016 | Pratt School
    of Engineering)
  * Interview with David Smith: How invisibility cloaks might become real (Sep
    30, 2015 | Gizmodo)
  * Which universities are the most innovative? (Aug 20, 2015 | Times Higher
    Education)
  * Smith Named Chair of ECE (Jul 10, 2014 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Energy Deputy Secretary: Duke’s Innovative Energy Research is Essential to
    Security, Safety (Apr 24, 2014 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Intellectual Ventures spinout Evolv gets $11.8M from Bill Gates and
    others, aims to transform security scanning (Sep 4, 2013 | GeekWire)
  * Exotic optics: Metamaterial world (Aug 9, 2013 | Nature)

## Representative Publications

  * Suthakar, U., L. Magnoni, D. R. Smith, and A. Khan. “Optimised Lambda
    Architecture for Monitoring Scientific Infrastructure.” Ieee Transactions
    on Parallel and Distributed Systems 32, no. 6 (June 1, 2021): 1395–1408.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/TPDS.2017.2772241.
  * Fern, G. R., P. R. Hobson, A. Metcalfe, and D. R. Smith. “Performance of
    four CVD diamond radiation sensors at high temperature.” Nuclear
    Instruments and Methods in Physics Research, Section A: Accelerators,
    Spectrometers, Detectors and Associated Equipment 958 (April 1, 2020).
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nima.2019.162486.
  * Ruiz, J. R., W. Guttenfelder, A. E. White, N. T. Howard, J. Candy, Y. Ren,
    D. R. Smith, N. F. Loureiro, C. Holland, and C. W. Domier. “Validation of
    gyrokinetic simulations of a National Spherical Torus eXperiment H-mode
    plasma and comparisons with a high-k scattering synthetic diagnostic.”
    Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion 61, no. 11 (October 15, 2019).
    https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6587/ab4742.
  * Hobson, P. R., and D. R. Smith. “A portable test-bench for real-time
    radiation damage measurements in scintillating and wavelength-shifting
    fibres.” In 2019 Ieee Nuclear Science Symposium and Medical Imaging
    Conference, Nss/Mic 2019, 2019.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/NSS/MIC42101.2019.9059764.
  * Ren, Y., D. R. Smith, S. J. Zweben, R. Bell, W. Guttenfelder, S. M. Kaye,
    B. P. Leblanc, et al. “Experimental observation of electron-scale
    turbulence evolution across the L-H transition in the National Spherical
    Torus Experiment.” Nuclear Fusion 59, no. 9 (August 6, 2019).
    https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-4326/ab2f4f.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

