Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Guillermo Sapiro

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Guillermo Sapiro received his B.Sc. (summa cum laude), M.Sc., and Ph.D. from
the Department of Electrical Engineering at the Technion, Israel Institute of
Technology, in 1989, 1991, and 1993 respectively. After post-doctoral research
at MIT, Dr. Sapiro became Member of Technical Staff at the research facilities
of HP Labs in Palo Alto, California. He was with the Department of Electrical
and Computer Engineering at the University of Minnesota, where he held the
position of Distinguished McKnight University Professor and Vincentine Hermes-
Luh Chair in Electrical and Computer Engineering. Currently he is the Edmund
T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor with Duke University.

G. Sapiro works on theory and applications in computer vision, computer
graphics, medical imaging, image analysis, and machine learning. He has
authored and co-authored over 300 papers in these areas and has written a book
published by Cambridge University Press, January 2001.

G. Sapiro was awarded the Gutwirth Scholarship for Special Excellence in
Graduate Studies in 1991, the Ollendorff Fellowship for Excellence in Vision
and Image Understanding Work in 1992, the Rothschild Fellowship for Post-
Doctoral Studies in 1993, the Office of Naval Research Young Investigator
Award in 1998, the Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientist and
Engineers (PECASE) in 1998, the National Science Foundation Career Award in
1999, and the National Security Science and Engineering Faculty Fellowship in
2010. He received the test of time award at ICCV 2011. He was elected to the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences on 2018.

G. Sapiro is a Fellow of IEEE and SIAM.

G. Sapiro was the founding Editor-in-Chief of the SIAM Journal on Imaging
Sciences.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
    Engineering
  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor of Computer Science
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** guillermo.sapiro@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar
    * Sapiro Lab

## Education

  * D.Sc. Israel Institute of Technology (Israel), 1993

## Research Interests

Image and video processing, computer vision, computer graphics, computational
vision, biomedical imaging, brain imaging, cryo-tomography of viruses,
computational tools in cryo-tomography, computational tools in early diagnosis
of psychiatric disorders, differential geometry and differential equations,
scientific computation, learning and high dimensional data analysis, sparse
modeling and dictionary learning, applied mathematics.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Member. National Academy of Engineering. 2022
  * Member. American Academy of Arts & Sciences. 2018
  * Stansell Family Distinguished Research Award. Pratt School of Engineering.
    2017
  * Distinguished Israel Pollack Lecturer. Technion (Haifa, Israel). 2016
  * Plenary Speaker. European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO). 2014
  * Fellow. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). 2014
  * Member, Board on Mathematical Sciences and their Applications (BMSA). The
    National Academies. 2014
  * Science Advisory Board. Institute for Computational and Experimental
    Research in Mathematics (ICERM), Brown University. 2014
  * Fellow. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics. 2013
  * Helmholtz Prize. IEEE Computer Society. 2011
  * National Security Science and Engineering Faculty Fellow. US Department of
    Defense. 2010

## Courses Taught

  * ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 493: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 494: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 891: Internship

## In the News

  * Duke Scholars Using Internal Seed Grants to Build Foundation for
    Collaborative Research (Nov 21, 2022 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies)
  * Duke’s Guillermo Sapiro Elected a Member of the National Academy of
    Engineering (Feb 14, 2022 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Supportive Strategies Help “Picky Eaters” Deal with Food Aversions (Nov
    12, 2021 | Duke Health News)
  * Check This Out! Autism screening app for babies (Nov 29, 2020)
  * Speeding Autism Diagnosis, Improving Outcomes Using Machine Learning (Jul
    16, 2019)
  * Ten Years After Publication, Sapiro's Paper Honored for Laying the
    Foundations for Study of Modern Machine Learning (Jun 13, 2019 | Pratt
    School of Engineering)
  * Mobile App for Autism Screening Yields Useful Data (Jun 1, 2018)
  * Four Faculty Members Elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences (Apr
    18, 2018)
  * Removing Blurred Lines Caused by Shaky Hands (Jun 8, 2017 | Pratt School
    of Engineering)
  * A MindAnd an EarFor Big Data (Feb 27, 2017 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * New Collaborative Seed Grant Program Gives Eight Awards (Mar 16, 2016)
  * New app may help diagnose autism in children (Jan 4, 2016 | The Times of
    India)
  * Could this iPhone app transform how we diagnose autism? (Oct 15, 2015 |
    Vox.com)
  * Duke Launches Autism Research App (Oct 14, 2015)
  * 'Painting' Medieval Statues: Jordan Hashemi's Bass Connections Pathway
    (Aug 14, 2015)
  * Guillermo Sapiro on innovative approaches to autism diagnoses (May 20,
    2015)
  * Duke Receives $9.75 Million for ‘Big Data’ Initiative (Apr 27, 2015)
  * Burst Photography: A Method to Remove Image Blur (Apr 20, 2015)
  * Big Insights, Little People: Duke Researchers Brief Officials on Childhood
    Mental Disorders (Dec 11, 2014)
  * Putting Big Data to Work in Autism Diagnosis (Nov 25, 2014)

## Representative Publications

  * Perochon, Sam, J. Matias Di Martino, Kimberly L. H. Carpenter, Scott
    Compton, Naomi Davis, Steven Espinosa, Lauren Franz, et al. “A tablet-
    based game for the assessment of visual motor skills in autistic
    children.” Npj Digit Med 6, no. 1 (February 3, 2023): 17.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/s41746-023-00762-6.
  * Engelhard, Matthew M., Ricardo Henao, Samuel I. Berchuck, Junya Chen,
    Brian Eichner, Darby Herkert, Scott H. Kollins, et al. “Predictive Value
    of Early Autism Detection Models Based on Electronic Health Record Data
    Collected Before Age 1 Year.” Jama Netw Open 6, no. 2 (February 1, 2023):
    e2254303. https://doi.org/10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2022.54303.
  * Krishnappa Babu, Pradeep Raj, J Matias Di Martino, Zhuoqing Chang, Sam
    Perochon, Rachel Aiello, Kimberly L. H. Carpenter, Scott Compton, et al.
    “Complexity analysis of head movements in autistic toddlers.” J Child
    Psychol Psychiatry 64, no. 1 (January 2023): 156–66.
    https://doi.org/10.1111/jcpp.13681.
  * Major, Samantha, Dmitry Isaev, Jordan Grapel, Todd Calnan, Elena
    Tenenbaum, Kimberly Carpenter, Lauren Franz, et al. “Shorter average look
    durations to dynamic social stimuli are associated with higher levels of
    autism symptoms in young autistic children.” Autism 26, no. 6 (August
    2022): 1451–59. https://doi.org/10.1177/13623613211056427.
  * Papadaki, A., N. Martinez, M. Bertran, G. Sapiro, and M. Rodrigues.
    “Minimax Demographic Group Fairness in Federated Learning.” In Acm
    International Conference Proceeding Series, 142–59, 2022.
    https://doi.org/10.1145/3531146.3533081.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

