Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Jeffrey Glass

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Jeffrey T. Glass is a Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering and Director of the Institute for Enterprise Engineering. He holds
the Hogg Family endowed chair in Engineering Management and Entrepreneurship.
Formerly, he was the Co-Director of The Institute for the Integration of
Management and Engineering at Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) and held
the Joseph F. Toot, Jr. endowed chair in the Case School of Engineering. Prior
to these university appointments he was the Vice President of R&D for Kobe
Steel USA Inc. Jeff received his Bachelors and Masters degrees from Johns
Hopkins University, and a Ph.D. in Materials Science and Engineering from the
University of Virginia. He also received an MBA from Duke University's Global
Executive (GEMBA) program.  
  
His current research involves electronic materials and the associated
devices/instruments improved by these materials. In particular, miniature mass
spectrometer development and engineered systems for waste treatment are
systems of focus for his lab. He is also involved in the development of joint
educational, research and technology transfer activities related to the
intersection of business and technology. He consults and holds advisory board
appointments with various companies in materials-related areas and has served
as an expert witness in patent litigation. Prior to his appointment at CWRU,
he was the Vice President of R&D for Kobe Steel USA Inc. with a focus on
electronic materials. Prior to joining Kobe Steel, he was a tenured faculty
member in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at North
Carolina State University. He has been involved in the study of Innovation
Management in technology-based organizations with a focus on the early stages
of technical development and received the 2004 Industrial Research Institute’s
Maurice Holland Award for his paper entitled “Managing the Ties Between
Central R&D and Business Units.”  
  
Jeff's technical research has focused on the growth and characterization of
thin films for electronics, including carbon nanotubes, graphene, graphenated
carbon nanotubes, diamond, silicon carbide and chalcogenides. Chemical vapor
deposition, sputtering, materials analysis and electronic/electrochemical
properties are his areas of interest. Miniature mass spectrometers,
decentralized waste treatment, smart toilets and photoelectrochemical energy
conversion devices are some of the applications his lab focuses on. He has
published over 175 papers and book chapters, edited seven books and is a co-
inventor on 14 patents. He has been a short course instructor for several
professional societies and companies and has organized numerous conferences.
He has given over 75 invited presentations in 12 different countries. He
served as a member of a Presidential Science Advisor's committee for the
assessment of diamond technology in Japan and has received two teaching awards
and the National Science Foundation Presidential Young Investigator award. He
has held adjunct faculty appointments at North Carolina State University, Case
Western Reserve University and the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the
University of North Carolina where he has taught executive courses on Managing
Innovation.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Director of the Pratt Masters Programs and Hogg Family Director of
    Engineering Management and Entrepreneurship
  * Director of the Institute for Enterprise Engineering (IEnE)
  * Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
    Materials Science
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative
  * Associate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society
  * Core Faculty in Innovation & Entrepreneurship

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Packages: Hudson Hall Room 129, Office: Teer Bldg Rm
    118, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 452-7158
  * **Email Address:** jeff.glass@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholars Web Page
    * J.T.Glass Nanomaterials and Thin Films Lab
    * Masters of Engineering Management Program

## Education

  * B.S.E. Johns Hopkins University, 1981
  * M.Sc.Eng. Johns Hopkins University, 1983
  * Ph.D. University of Virginia, 1986
  * M.B.A. Duke University, 1999

## Research Interests

Electronic materials and the associated devices/instruments improved by these
materials, especially electrode applications in miniature mass spectrometry,
energy conversion and storage and liquid waste disinfection for developing
regions. Electrochemical measurements and applications of thin films,
including carbon nanotubes, graphene and atomic layer deposited oxides are of
particular interest

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Stansell Family Distinguished Research Award. Pratt School of Engineering.
    2015
  * Highly Cited Researcher. Thomson Reuters. 2001

## Courses Taught

  * EGRMGMT 572: Innovation Management in Technology-Based Organizations
  * MSEG 591: Independent Study

## In the News

  * Engineering Dean Bellamkonda Named Provost at Emory University; Glass to
    Serve as Interim Dean (Feb 16, 2021)
  * Stretched to Eight Times Their Size, These Supercapacitors Are Ready for
    Your Wearable Devices (Mar 19, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Toilet Paper Sabotage Isn't Stopping Progress on Project to 'Reinvent the
    Toilet' (Feb 17, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Reinventing the Toilet (Nov 5, 2018 | Duke Stories)
  * Duke's Community-Based Toilet System Begins Testing in India (Apr 25, 2018
    | Duke Global Health Institute)
  * Duke's Community-Based Toilet System Begins Testing in India (Apr 4, 2018
    | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Duke, RTI International Partner on Improved Global Sanitation (Aug 28,
    2017)
  * Engineering the Toilet (May 11, 2017 | DukEngineer Magazine)
  * Energy Initiative Awards Seven New Seed Grants (Apr 28, 2017)
  * Coding and Computers Help Spot Methane, Explosives (Apr 15, 2016)
  * Duke University innovation may lead to portable mass spectrometers (Apr
    14, 2016 | Homeland Security Today)
  * Duke Engineers Help Launch Off-Grid Sanitation System in India (Sep 25,
    2015)
  * Sniffing Out Gas Leaks: Pratt Researchers Work on Next-Generation Methane
    Detector (Feb 19, 2015)
  * Energy deputy secretary: Duke’s innovative energy research essential to
    security, safety (Apr 24, 2014)
  * Energy Initiative Provides First Round of Research Seed Funding (Apr 16,
    2014)
  * U.S. Reps Visit Federally Funded Airport Security Research at Duke (Nov 7,
    2013)

## Representative Publications

  * Aloui, T., R. B. Serpa, N. Abboud, K. L. Horvath, J. Keogh, C. B. Parker,
    J. C. Stern, et al. “A super-resolution proof of concept in a cycloidal
    coded aperture miniature mass spectrometer.” Rapid Communications in Mass
    Spectrometry, January 1, 2023. https://doi.org/10.1002/rcm.9477.
  * Serpa, R. B., E. L. Piacentino, K. L. Horvath, T. Aloui, Y. Zhilichev, C.
    B. Parker, J. T. Glass, et al. “Virtual-slit focusing in a cycloidal mass
    spectrometer – A proof of concept.” International Journal of Mass
    Spectrometry 470 (December 1, 2021).
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijms.2021.116706.
  * Piacentino, Elettra L., Rafael Bento Serpa, Kathleen L. Horvath, Raul
    Vyas, Tanouir Aloui, Charles B. Parker, James B. Carlson, et al. “The Long
    Neglected Cycloidal Mass Analyzer.” Analytical Chemistry 93, no. 33
    (August 2021): 11357–63. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.analchem.1c02001.
  * Vyas, Raul, Tanouir Aloui, Kathleen Horvath, Philip J. Herr, Matthew P.
    Kirley, Charles B. Parker, Adam D. Keil, et al. “Improving the Performance
    of a Cycloidal Coded-Aperture Miniature Mass Spectrometer.” Journal of the
    American Society for Mass Spectrometry 32, no. 2 (February 2021): 509–18.
    https://doi.org/10.1021/jasms.0c00378.
  * Zhou, Y., C. B. Parker, P. Joshi, A. K. Naskar, J. T. Glass, and C. Cao.
    “4D Printing of Stretchable Supercapacitors via Hybrid Composite
    Materials.” Advanced Materials Technologies 6, no. 1 (January 1, 2021).
    https://doi.org/10.1002/admt.202001055.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

