Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Kishor S. Trivedi

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Hudson Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Kishor Trivedi holds the Hudson Chair in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University. He is known as a leading
international expert in the domain of reliability and performability
evaluation of Dependable systems, and has made seminal contributions to
stochastic modeling formalisms and their efficient solution. He is currently
carrying out experimental research in software reliability during operation
where he is researching software fault tolerance through environmental
diversity. This work, including software bug classification, empirical study
of real failure data and associated theory of affordable software fault
tolerance, has already gained significant attention.

He has made key contributions to his field in many ways. He has encapsulated
developed algorithms into usable and well circulated software packages, and
applied research results to practical problems working directly with industry.
This work has not only been able to solve difficult real-life problems but
also produce new research based on the problems. He has published over 600
articles, has supervised 48 Ph.D. dissertations and more than 50 postdoctoral
associates. He is a Life Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers and a Golden Core Member of IEEE Computer Society. He has served on
many editorial boards and conference committees and is the recipient of IEEE
Computer Society Technical Achievement Award for his research on Software
Aging and Rejuvenation. He is the recipient of IEEE Reliability Society's Life
Time Achievement Award. He is on ISI’s highly cited list with an h-index of
108, and has received grants from such governmental agencies as NASA, NATO,
NSF, DARPA, AFOSR, ARO, NIH, NSWC, ONR, and RADC.

Trivedi has also helped several high-profile companies carry out
reliability/availability prediction of their products under design or in
existence, including 3Com, Avaya, Boeing, Cisco, DEC, EMC, GE, HP, Huawei,
IBM, Lucent, NEC, TCS, Union Switch and Signals, Wipro. Most notable among
these, is his help in reliability modeling of the current return network
subsystem of the Boeing 787 for FAA certification. The algorithm he developed
for this problem has been jointly patented by Boeing and Trivedi. He led the
reliability/availability modeling of SIP on IBM WebSphere; this model was
responsible for the sale of the system by IBM to AT & T.

Furthermore, Trivedi has written several influential books, including
textbooks. He is the author of a well-known text entitled, Probability and
Statistics with Reliability, Queuing and Computer Science Applications,
originally published by Prentice-Hall; a thoroughly revised second edition
(including its Indian edition) has been published by John Wiley. This book is
translated into Chinese in Nov. 2015. This book has appeared as a paperback in
July 2016.He has also published two other books titled, Performance and
Reliability Analysis of Computer Systems, published by Springer and Queueing
Networks and Markov Chains by John Wiley. His latest book, Reliability and
Availability Engineering: Modeling, Analysis and Applications, is published by
Cambridge University Press in 2017.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Hudson Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke Kunshan
    University
  * Professor of Computer Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Science Drive, 203 Hudson Eng Ctr, Durham, NC
    27708-0291
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5269
  * **Email Address:** kst@ee.duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke High Availability Assurance Lab (DHAAL)
    * My Research gate webpage

## Education

  * B.S.E.E. Indian Institute of Technology (India), 1968
  * M.S. University of Illinois, 1972
  * Ph.D. University of Illinois, 1974

## Research Interests

Markov models, Fault trees, Stochastic Petri nets, Reliability Modeling,
Availability Modeling, Performability modeling, Survivability modeling, Cyber
Security, Software reliability, Software Fault Tolerance, Software Aging and
Rejuvenation

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Lifetime Achievement Award. IEEE Reliability Society. 2021
  * Life Fellow. IEEE. 2017
  * ONR Faculty Fellow Summer 2015. ONR. 2015
  * Fellow. Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. 2014
  * NordsecMob Scholar. Norwegian University of Science and Technology. 2014
  * Doctor Honoris Causa. USMP, Lima, Peru. 2012
  * Technical Achievement Award. IEEE Computer Society. 2008
  * Traditional Fulbright Scholarship. Council for International Exchange of
    Scholars. 2002
  * Highly Cited Researcher. Thomson Reuters. 2001
  * Fellow. Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers. 1992

## Courses Taught

  * COMPSCI 393: Research Independent Study
  * COMPSCI 555: Probability for Electrical and Computer Engineers
  * ECE 555: Probability for Electrical and Computer Engineers
  * ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 590K: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 891: Internship
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering
  * K_CMPSCI 320: Software Reliability

## Representative Publications

  * Ma, Xiaomin, and Kishor S. Trivedi. “Reliability and performance of
    general two-dimensional broadcast wireless network.” Performance
    Evaluation 95 (January 2016): 41–59.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.peva.2015.09.005.
  * Trivedi, K. S., and R. Xia. “Quantification of system survivability.”
    Telecommunication Systems 60, no. 4 (December 1, 2015): 451–70.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11235-015-9988-6.
  * Rak, J., M. Pickavet, K. S. Trivedi, J. A. Lopez, A. M. C. A. Koster, J.
    P. G. Sterbenz, E. K. Çetinkaya, et al. “Future research directions in
    design of reliable communication systems.” Telecommunication Systems 60,
    no. 4 (March 27, 2015): 423–50. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11235-015-9987-7.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

