Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Maria Gorlatova

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Dr. Maria Gorlatova's research is focused on reaching the next level of
adaptive intelligent behavior in Internet of Things systems and applications.
This research involves the development of architectures, algorithms, and
protocols for emerging pervasive systems. It crosses traditional discipline
boundaries and requires thinking across multiple layers of system and protocol
stacks.  
  
Dr. Gorlatova earned her Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Columbia
University, and her M.Sc. and B.Sc. (Summa Cum Laude) degrees in Electrical
Engineering from University of Ottawa, Canada. She has several years of
industry experience, where she had been affiliated with Telcordia
Technologies, IBM, and D. E. Shaw Research. She came to Duke from Princeton
University, where she held the positions of an Associate Research Scholar in
the Electrical Engineering Department and an Associate Director of the
Princeton EDGE Lab.  
  
Dr. Gorlatova is a recipient of the Google Anita Borg USA Fellowship, Canadian
Graduate Scholar CGS NSERC Fellowships, the Columbia University Presidential
Fellowship, and the Columbia University Jury Award for Outstanding Achievement
in Communications. She is a co-recipient of the ACM SenSys Best Student
Demonstration Award, the IEEE Communications Society Young Author Best Paper
Award, and the IEEE Communications Society Award for Advances in
Communications.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** maria.gorlatova@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * LinkedIn profile 
    * Personal webpage 

## Education

  * B.S. University of Ottawa (Canada), 2004
  * M.S. University of Ottawa (Canada), 2007
  * Ph.D. Columbia University, 2013

## Research Interests

Architectures, algorithms, and protocols for emerging mobile pervasive systems
and the Internet of Things. Our work crosses traditional discipline boundaries
and requires thinking across multiple layers of system and protocol stacks. We
are focusing on breaking the barriers for technologies that enable
fundamentally new deployments and experiences, such as energy harvesting,
artificial intelligence adapted to the Internet of Things constraints, and
augmented reality.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Best Research Artifact Award. IEEE IPSN. 2020
  * N2 Women Rising Star. Networking Networking Women (N2Women). 2019
  * Young Author Best Paper Award. IEEE Communications Society. 2016
  * Jury Award for Outstanding Achievement in Communications. Columbia
    University Electrical Engineering Department. 2013
  * Anita Borg USA Fellowship. Google. 2012
  * Award for Advances in Communications. IEEE Communications Society. 2011
  * Best Student Demonstration Award. ACM SenSys. 2011
  * Presidential Fellowship. Columbia University. 2008
  * Alexander Graham Bell Canada Graduate CGS-D Scholarship. Natural Sciences
    and Engineering Research Council Canada. 2008

## Courses Taught

  * COMPSCI 356: Computer Network Architecture
  * COMPSCI 393: Research Independent Study
  * COMPSCI 394: Research Independent Study
  * COMPSCI 564: Edge Computing
  * COMPSCI 590: Advanced Topics in Computer Science
  * ECE 292: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 356: Computer Network Architecture
  * ECE 391: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 493: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 494: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 654: Edge Computing
  * ECE 891: Internship
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * NEUROSCI 493: Research Independent Study 1
  * NEUROSCI 494: Research Independent Study 2

## In the News

  * Simulated Human Eye Movement Aims to Train Metaverse Platforms (Mar 16,
    2022 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Augmented Reality, Fog, and Vision: Duke Professor Outlines Importance of
    Smart Architectures (Oct 2, 2018 | Network World)
  * Maria Gorlatova: Creating an Intelligent Internet of Things (Sep 11, 2018
    | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * If Donald Trump Were Actually a Battery (May 18, 2017 | New Yorker)
  * The OpenFog Reference Architecture: A Baseline for Interoperability in the
    IIoT Cloud-to-things Continuum (Mar 6, 2017 | Embedded Computing Design)
  * The Internet of You (May 20, 2014 | MIT Technology Review)

## Representative Publications

  * Sun, J., A. Li, L. Duan, S. Alam, X. Deng, X. Guo, H. Wang, et al.
    “FedSEA: A Semi-Asynchronous Federated Learning Framework for Extremely
    Heterogeneous Devices.” In Sensys 2022 Proceedings of the 20th Acm
    Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems, 106–19, 2022.
    https://doi.org/10.1145/3560905.3568538.
  * Eom, S., M. Hadziahmetovic, M. Pajic, and M. Gorlatova. “Demo Abstract:
    Through an AR Lens: Augmented Reality Magnification through Feature
    Detection and Matching.” In Sensys 2022 Proceedings of the 20th Acm
    Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems, 784–85, 2022.
    https://doi.org/10.1145/3560905.3568067.
  * Han, Y., Y. Chen, R. Wang, J. Wu, and M. Gorlatova. “Intelli-AR
    Preloading: A Learning Approach to Proactive Hologram Transmissions in
    Mobile AR.” Ieee Internet of Things Journal 9, no. 18 (September 15,
    2022): 17714–27. https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2022.3159554.
  * Jiang, Y., W. Wang, T. Scargill, M. Rothman, J. Dunn, and M. Gorlatova.
    “Digital biomarkers reflect stress reduction after Augmented Reality
    guided meditation: A feasibility study.” In Digibiom 2022 Proceedings of
    the 2022 Emerging Devices for Digital Biomarkers, 29–34, 2022.
    https://doi.org/10.1145/3539494.3542754.
  * Manjarres, J., G. Lan, M. Gorlatova, M. Hassan, and M. Pardo. “Deep
    Learning for Detecting Human Activities from Piezoelectric-Based Kinetic
    Energy Signals.” Ieee Internet of Things Journal 9, no. 10 (May 15, 2022):
    7545–58. https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3093245.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

