Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Michael Richard Gustafson II

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Dr. Gustafson received a B.S.E. in 1993 from Duke University, majoring in
Electrical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science. He
continued on at Duke to earn his M.S. (1998) and Ph.D. (1999) in Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science. He received his appointment as Assistant
Professor of the Practice of Electrical & Computer Engineering in 2005 and was
promoted to Associate Professor of the Practice in 2009. Previously, he has
served as Adjunct Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science and as Lecturing Fellow and Assistant Chair of the Civil and
Environmental Engineering Department, both at Duke. He currently holds a
secondary appointment with the Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
Department.  
  
Professor Gustafson's primary focus is on undergraduate curriculum and
laboratory development. He is responsible for the first-year Computational
Methods in Engineering (EGR 103L) course and has also taught seventeen other
courses totaling over 100 course offerings and over 7000 students. He
previously served as a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy as a
Naval Reservist, and is authorized to wear the Navy and Marine Corps
Commendation Medal (two awards), the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal
(two awards), the National Defense Service Medal (two awards), and the
Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal. He is the 2005 recipient of the
first Capers and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and
Advising at Duke University and the 2019 recipient of the Pratt School of
Engineering Alumni Council Distinguished Service Award.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Associate Professor of the Practice in the Thomas Lord Department of
    Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 110 Science Drive, Teer Building Box 90271, Durham,
    NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5354
  * **Email Address:** mrg@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Pratt Wiki

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1999

## Research Interests

Computational methods for image analysis and information extraction, discrete
event simulations, curriculum development and deployment

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Alumnus Award of Distinction. North American Interfraternity Conference.
    2022
  * Distinguished Service Award. Engineering Alumni Council. 2019
  * The McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and Advising. Duke
    University, Pratt School of Engineering. 2005

## Courses Taught

  * ECE 110L9: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering - Lab
  * ECE 110L: Fundamentals of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 280L9: Signals and Systems - Lab
  * ECE 280L: Introduction to Signals and Systems
  * ECE 382L: Control of Dynamic Systems
  * ECE 392: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 493: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * EGR 103L9: Computational Methods in Engineering (Lab)
  * EGR 103L: Computational Methods in Engineering
  * EGR 224L: Electrical Fundamentals of Mechatronics
  * ME 344L: Control of Dynamic Systems
  * ME 392: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering

## Representative Publications

  * Williams, James, Michael Gustafson, Yu Bai, Samuel Prater, Charles E.
    Wade, Oscar D. Guillamondegui, Mansoor Khan, et al. “Limitations of
    Available Blood Products for Massive Transfusion During Mass Casualty
    Events at US Level 1 Trauma Centers.” Shock (Augusta, Ga.) 56, no. 1S
    (December 2021): 62–69. https://doi.org/10.1097/shk.0000000000001719.
  * Carlos, Evan C., Daniel A. Wollin, Brenton B. Winship, Ruiyang Jiang,
    Daniela Radvak, Ben H. Chew, Michael R. Gustafson, et al. “In Vitro
    Comparison of a Novel Single Probe Dual-Energy Lithotripter to Current
    Devices.” J Endourol 32, no. 6 (June 2018): 534–40.
    https://doi.org/10.1089/end.2018.0143.
  * Huettel, L., M. R. Gustafson, J. C. Nadeau, D. Schaad, M. M. Barger, and
    L. Linnenbrink-Garcia. “A grand challenge-based framework for contextual
    learning in engineering: Impact on student outcomes and motivation.” In
    Asee Annual Conference and Exposition, Conference Proceedings, Vol. 122nd
    ASEE Annual Conference and Exposition: Making Value for Society, 2015.
  * Huettel, L., M. R. Gustafson, J. C. Nadeau, D. E. Schaad, M. M. Barger,
    and L. Linnenbrink-Garcia. “Evidence for the effectiveness of a grand
    challenge-based framework for contextual learning.” Asee Annual Conference
    and Exposition, Conference Proceedings, January 1, 2014.
  * Huettel, L. G., M. R. Gustafson, J. C. Nadeau, D. Schaad, M. M. Barger,
    and L. Linnenbrink-Garcia. “A grand challenge-based framework for
    contextual learning in engineering.” Asee Annual Conference and
    Exposition, Conference Proceedings, September 24, 2013.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

