Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Richard B. Fair

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Lord-Chandran Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Dr. Fair is a Life Fellow of the IEEE and a Fellow of the Electrochemical
Society. He has served as Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on
Electron Devices (1990-1993) and is past Editor-In-Chief of the Proceedings of
the IEEE (1993-2000). He received the IEEE Third Millennium Medal in 2000, and
the 2003 Solid State Science and Technology Award from the Electrochemical
Society. He has published 150 papers in technical journals, contributed
chapters to 10 books, edited eight more books, and given over 115 invited
talks.  
Our research group will continue to be driven by applications for lab-on-a-
chip technology. While funding for microfluidics devices and science is non-
existent, applications in environmental engineering, biosensing, diagnostics,
genomics, etc. continue to appear. Thus, we have created strategic alliances
with faculty in ECE, CEE, chemistry, genomics, biochemistry, microsystems
engineering, and computer science at Duke, DUHS, Harvard and Stanford as part
of our new thrusts into applications-driven research in bio-fluidic systems.
We have funding to glue these critical pieces together. We have also aligned
with Advanced Liquid Logic for the development of a more stable electrowetting
platform on which to develop applications. And we are working on an NSF grant
with Nan Jokerst’s group and Krish’s on an adaptive lab chip to develop on-
chip optical sensing and control. Additionally, we have DARPA funding with
Stanford, Harvard, and ALL in developing a genomic engineering platform for
synthetic biology. Also, we are starting a new NSF grant on airborne particle
sensing with Desert Research Institute.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Lord-Chandran Distinguished Professor of Engineering
  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Affiliate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3519 CIEMAS, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engrg.,
    Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5277
  * **Websites:**
    * http://www.ee.duke.edu/research/microfluidics/

## Education

  * B.S.E.E. Duke University, 1964
  * M.S.E.E. Pennsylvania State University, 1966
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1969

## Research Interests

Microfluidic systems for lab-on-a-chip applications based on electrowetting
technology

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Life Fellow. IEEE. 2009
  * Gordon E. Moore Medal for Outstanding Achievement in Solid State Science
    and Technology. Electrochemical Society. 2003
  * Third Millennium Medal. IEEE. 2000
  * Professor James F. Gibbons Achievement Award. 4th International Conference
    on Advanced Thermal Processing. 1996
  * Fellow. Electrochemical Society. 1994
  * Fellow. Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers. 1990

## Courses Taught

  * ECE 331L: Fundamentals of Microelectronic Circuits
  * ECE 493: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 528: Integrated Circuit Engineering
  * ECE 533: Biochip Engineering
  * ECE 891: Internship

## In the News

  * The 'Citation Classic' That Redefined Microfluidics (Mar 27, 2017 | Pratt
    School of Engineering)
  * Faculty Research Leads to Jobs and Companies (Sep 16, 2014 | Duke Today)

## Representative Publications

  * Bigdeli, Y., S. Preetam, K. C. Scott, Z. Zhong, T. C. Liang, Z. Tini, K.
    Chakrabarty, and R. B. Fair. “Enhanced fluorescent detection of
    nucleosomes using functionalized magnetic beads on a digital microfluidic
    device.” In Progress in Biomedical Optics and Imaging Proceedings of Spie,
    Vol. 11955, 2022. https://doi.org/10.1117/12.2620556.
  * Bigdeli, Y., S. Preetam, K. C. Scott, Z. Zhong, T. C. Liang, K.
    Chakrabarty, and R. B. Fair. “Fluorescent detection of nucleosomes using
    functionalized magnetic beads on a digital microfluidic device.” In
    Progress in Biomedical Optics and Imaging Proceedings of Spie, Vol. 11637,
    2021. https://doi.org/10.1117/12.2578339.
  * Preetam, S., Y. Bigdeli, and R. B. Fair. “ENHANCED BIOMOLECULAR BINDING TO
    BEADS ON A DIGITAL MICROFLUIDIC DEVICE.” In Microtas 2021 25th
    International Conference on Miniaturized Systems for Chemistry and Life
    Sciences, 959–60, 2021.
  * Huang, Shuquan, Jessica Connolly, Andrei Khlystov, and Richard B. Fair.
    “Digital Microfluidics for the Detection of Selected Inorganic Ions in
    Aerosols.” Sensors (Basel, Switzerland) 20, no. 5 (February 2020): E1281.
    https://doi.org/10.3390/s20051281.
  * Liang, T. C., Z. Zhong, Y. Bigdeli, T. Y. Ho, K. Chakrabarty, and R. Fair.
    “Adaptive droplet routing in digital microfluidic biochips using deep
    reinforcement learning.” In 37th International Conference on Machine
    Learning, Icml 2020, PartF168147-8:6006–16, 2020.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

