Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Robert Calderbank

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

Robert Calderbank is Director of the Information Initiative at Duke
University, where he is Professor of Electrical Engineering, Computer Science
and Mathematics. He joined Duke in 2010, completed a 3 year term as Dean of
Natural Sciences in August 2013, and also served as Interim Director of the
Duke Initiative in Innovation and Entrepreneurship in 2012. Before joining
Duke he was Professor of Electrical Engineering and Mathematics at Princeton
University where he also directed the Program in Applied and Computational
Mathematics.

Before joining Princeton University Dr. Calderbank was Vice President for
Research at AT&T. As Vice President for Research he managed AT&T intellectual
property, and he was responsible for licensing revenue. AT&T Labs was the
first of a new type of research lab where masses of data generated by network
services became a giant sandbox in which fundamental discoveries in
information science became a source of commercial advantage

At Duke, Dr. Calderbank works with researchers from the Duke Center for Autism
and Brain Development, developing information technology that is able to
capture a full spectrum of behavior in very young children. By supporting more
consistent and cost-effective early diagnosis, the team is increasing the
opportunity for early interventions that have proven very effective.

At the start of his career at Bell Labs, Dr. Calderbank developed voiceband
modem technology that was widely licensed and incorporated in over a billion
devices. Voiceband means the signals are audible so these modems burped and
squeaked as they connected to the internet. One of these products was the AT&T
COMSPHERE® modem which was the fastest modem in the world in 1994 – at
33.6kb/s!

Together with Peter Shor and colleagues at AT&T Labs Dr. Calderbank developed
the group theoretic framework for quantum error correction. This framework
changed the way physicists view quantum entanglement, and provided the
foundation for fault tolerant quantum computation.

Dr. Calderbank has also developed technology that improves the speed and
reliability of wireless communication by correlating signals across several
transmit antennas. Invented in 1996, this space-time coding technology has
been incorporated in a broad range of 3G, 4G and 5G wireless standards. He
served on the Technical Advisory Board of Flarion Technologies a wireless
infrastructure company founded by Rajiv Laroia and acquired by Qualcomm for
$1B in 2008.

Dr. Calderbank is an IEEE Fellow and an AT&T Fellow, and he was elected to the
National Academy of Engineering in 2005. He received the 2013 IEEE Hamming
Medal for contributions to coding theory and communications and the 2015
Shannon Award.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science
  * Professor of Computer Science
  * Director of the Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke
  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor of Mathematics
  * Associate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 140 Science Drive, 317 Gross Hall, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 613-7874
  * **Email Address:** robert.calderbank@duke.edu

## Education

  * B.S. University of Warwick (United Kingdom), 1975
  * M.S. Oxford University (United Kingdom), 1976
  * Ph.D. California Institute of Technology, 1980

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Elected Member. American Academy of Arts & Sciences. 2022
  * NAI Fellow. National Academy of Inventors. 2014
  * Fellow. American Mathematical Society. 2013
  * Richard W. Hamming Medal. Institute for Electrical and Electronics
    Engineers. 2013
  * AAAS Fellows. American Association for the Advancement of Science, The.
    2012
  * Membership. National Academy of Engineering. 2005
  * Highly Cited Researcher. Thomson Reuters. 2001
  * Fellows. Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers. 1998

## Courses Taught

  * COMPSCI 393: Research Independent Study
  * ECE 483: Introduction to Digital Communication Systems
  * ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * MATH 391: Independent Study
  * MATH 393: Research Independent Study
  * MATH 394: Research Independent Study
  * MATH 501: Introduction to Algebraic Structures I
  * MATH 590-02: Advanced Special Topics in Mathematics

## In the News

  * Four Faculty Elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences (Apr 28, 2022)
  * Duke to Lead Center to Develop U.S. Air Force Wireless Communications
    Protocols (Oct 21, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Duke Launches Center to Bring Computational Thinking to All Students (Oct
    12, 2020)
  * How to Judge an AI Art Competition (Mar 26, 2019 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Information Initiative at Duke Named to Honor Michael and Maureen Rhodes
    (Dec 6, 2018 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Calderbank Reappointed to New Term as Information Initiative Director (Oct
    10, 2018)
  * A MindAnd an EarFor Big Data (Feb 27, 2017 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Duke Receives $9.75 Million for ‘Big Data’ Initiative (Apr 27, 2015)
  * DIW Office Connects Duke Experts to Washington (Mar 6, 2015)
  * Calderbank, Chilkoti Named Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors
    (Dec 16, 2014)
  * Putting Big Data to Work in Autism Diagnosis (Nov 25, 2014)
  * Math Junior Flips for Bit Flips (Aug 11, 2014 | Duke Research Blog)
  * A Toast for Robert Calderbank (Jul 10, 2014)
  * Calderbank Receives Shannon Award (Jul 7, 2014)
  * Duke Faculty Head to DC to Talk to Policymakers About Math and Art (Jun
    18, 2014)
  * Van Gogh and the algorithm: How math can save art (Jun 17, 2014 | TIME)
  * Calderbank Awarded IEEE Medal (Jun 20, 2013)

## Representative Publications

  * Nguyen, Duc Minh, Robert Calderbank, and Nikos Deligiannis. “Geometric
    Matrix Completion With Deep Conditional Random Fields.” Ieee Transactions
    on Neural Networks and Learning Systems 31, no. 9 (September 2020):
    3579–93. https://doi.org/10.1109/tnnls.2019.2945111.
  * Beirami, A., R. Calderbank, M. M. Christiansen, K. R. Duffy, and M.
    Medard. “A Characterization of Guesswork on Swiftly Tilting Curves.” Ieee
    Transactions on Information Theory 65, no. 5 (May 1, 2019): 2850–71.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.2018.2879477.
  * Michelusi, N., M. Nokleby, U. Mitra, and R. Calderbank. “Multi-Scale
    Spectrum Sensing in Dense Multi-Cell Cognitive Networks.” Ieee
    Transactions on Communications 67, no. 4 (April 1, 2019): 2673–88.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/TCOMM.2018.2886020.
  * Vahid, A., and R. Calderbank. “Throughput region of spatially correlated
    interference packet networks.” Ieee Transactions on Information Theory 65,
    no. 2 (February 1, 2019): 1220–35.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.2018.2860041.
  * Zhu, W., Q. Qiu, J. Huang, R. Calderbank, G. Sapiro, and I. Daubechies.
    “LDMNet: Low Dimensional Manifold Regularized Neural Networks.”
    Proceedings of the Ieee Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and
    Pattern Recognition, December 14, 2018, 2743–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2018.00290.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

