Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Yiran Chen

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Yiran Chen received B.S (1998) and M.S. (2001) from Tsinghua University and
Ph.D. (2005) from Purdue University. After five years in the industry, he
joined the University of Pittsburgh in 2010 as Assistant Professor and was
promoted to Associate Professor with tenure in 2014, holding Bicentennial
Alumni Faculty Fellow. He is now the Professor of the Department of Electrical
and Computer Engineering at Duke University and serving as the director of the
NSF AI Institute for Edge Computing Leveraging the Next-generation Networks
(Athena), the NSF Industry-University Cooperative Research Center (IUCRC) for
Alternative Sustainable and Intelligent Computing (ASIC), and the co-director
of Duke Center for Computational Evolutionary Intelligence (DCEI). His group
focuses on the research of new memory and storage systems, machine learning
and neuromorphic computing, and mobile computing systems. Dr. Chen has
published 1 book and about 500 technical publications and has been granted 96
US patents. He has served as the associate editor of more than a dozen
international academic periodicals and served on the technical and
organization committees of more than 60 international conferences. He is now
serving as the Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Circuits and Systems Magazine. He
received eight best paper awards, one best poster award, and sixteen best
paper nominations from reputable international conferences and workshops such
as MICRO, KDD, DATE, SEC, etc. He received numerous awards for his technical
contributions and professional services such as the IEEE Computer Society
Edward J. McCluskey Technical Achievement Award, ACM SIGDA Service Award, etc.
He is a Fellow of the ACM and IEEE and now serves as the chair of ACM SIGDA.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Professor of Computer Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 405 Wilkison Building, 534 Research Dr., Durham, NC
    27705
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-1372
  * **Email Address:** yiran.chen@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke Center of Computational Evolutionary Intelligence (CEI)
    * Google Scholar Page
    * NSF AI Institute for Edge Computing Leveraging Next Generation Networks (Athena)
    * NSF IUCRC for Alternative Sustainable and Intelligent Computing (ASIC) 

## Education

  * Ph.D. Purdue University, 2005

## Research Interests

Emerging memory and storage technologies

Embedded systems, CPS, edge computing, and mobile applications

Neuromorphic computing, deep learning and system security

Low power circuit and system

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Edward J. McCluskey Technical Achievement Award. Institute of Electrical
    and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). 2022
  * ACM Fellow. ACM. 2020
  * IEEE Fellow. IEEE. 2018

## Courses Taught

  * COMPSCI 393: Research Independent Study
  * ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 661: Computer Engineering Machine Learning and Deep Neural Nets
  * ECE 891: Internship
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering

## In the News

  * Three Duke Faculty Elected AAAS Fellows (Jan 31, 2023 | Duke Today)
  * NSF Launches Artificial Intelligence Research Center at Duke (Jul 29,
    2021)
  * Yiran Chen: Integrating Tomorrows Technology into Todays Devices (Jan 3,
    2017)

## Representative Publications

  * Hanson, E., S. Li, X. Qian, H. H. Li, and Y. Chen. “DyNNamic: Dynamically
    Reshaping, High Data-Reuse Accelerator for Compact DNNs.” Ieee
    Transactions on Computers 72, no. 3 (March 1, 2023): 880–92.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/TC.2022.3184272.
  * Pang, Meng, Binghui Wang, Mang Ye, Yiu-Ming Cheung, Yiran Chen, and Bihan
    Wen. “DisP+V: A Unified Framework for Disentangling Prototype and
    Variation From Single Sample per Person.” Ieee Transactions on Neural
    Networks and Learning Systems 34, no. 2 (February 2023): 867–81.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/tnnls.2021.3103194.
  * Chang, C. C., J. Pan, Z. Xie, J. Hu, and Y. Chen. “Rethink before
    Releasing Your Model: ML Model Extraction Attack in EDA.” In Proceedings
    of the Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conference, Asp Dac,
    252–57, 2023. https://doi.org/10.1145/3566097.3567896.
  * Yang, X., S. Li, Q. Zheng, and Y. Chen. “Improving the Robustness and
    Efficiency of PIM-Based Architecture by SW/HW Co-Design.” In Proceedings
    of the Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conference, Asp Dac,
    618–23, 2023. https://doi.org/10.1145/3566097.3568358.
  * Chang, C. C., J. Pan, Z. Xie, Y. Li, Y. Lin, J. Hu, and Y. Chen. “Fully
    Automated Machine Learning Model Development for Analog Placement Quality
    Prediction.” In Proceedings of the Asia and South Pacific Design
    Automation Conference, Asp Dac, 58–63, 2023.
    https://doi.org/10.1145/3566097.3567881.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

