

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine

# DukEngineer Magazine 2022

**In this issue:** A Conversation with New Duke Engineering Dean Jerome Lynch,
The Duke Quantum Center Launches a New Era of Computing, Students and Faculty
Alike Adapt to the “New Normal”, How First-Year Design Affected Its Inaugural
Class and more.

Scroll down to view all the stories!

## Meet the Editors

### Editor-in-Chief

 **Talya Jeter** is a junior from Cleveland, Ohio majoring in biomedical
engineering and neuroscience while minoring in African & African American
studies. She’s passionate about writing, college and career readiness, so in
her free time she helps high school students apply to college. She also loves
to play video games and is on the Duke League of Legends Esports team. Other
activities that she’s involved in at Duke are Duke eNable, Project Tadpole and
Bass Connections.

### Editorial Team

 **Shyamal Hitesh Anadkat** is a graduate student in the Artificial
Intelligence for Product Innovation program at Pratt. Shyamal earned a dual
bachelor’s degree in computer engineering and computer science from the
University of Wisconsin-Madison. He is passionate about software engineering,
machine learning and entrepreneurship. Outside of work, he loves to run and
read.

 **Katie Cobb** is a senior from Vienna, Virginia studying mechanical
engineering with the certificate in Energy and the Environment. On campus, she
is involved with the Duke American Society of Mechanical Engineers. She enjoys
baking, playing the piano and crossword puzzles.

 **Prakruti Kumar** is a graduate student pursuing a Masters in Engineering
Management. At Duke, she’s involved with the media club and helps lead
photography events. During her free time, she loves to travel, explore
cultures and photograph people and places.

 **Sunggun Lee** is a sophomore studying biomedical engineering and electrical
and computer engineering. He is interested in developing tools and models for
global health and enjoys learning about different cultures. Sunggun is also
involved in Duke Engineers for International Development and a global health
Bass Connections team on campus. In his free time, he enjoys listening to
music, playing soccer and is currently attempting to learn the electric
guitar.

 **Johnson Li** is a sophomore majoring in ECE with a minor in biology. When
not stuck in his room doing homework, he enjoys spending his free time
reading, going on runs and taking naps.

 **Philip Liu** is a senior from Austin, Texas majoring in mechanical
engineering, minoring in economics, and pursuing certificates in Innovation &
Entrepreneurship as well as Philosophy, Politics & Economics. At Duke, he is
an inaugural A. James Clark Scholar, tour guide for the Pratt School of
Engineering and alumnus of the Duke in Silicon Valley program. His interests
include technology, business, innovation, service and storytelling.
Recreationally, Philip enjoys music, movies and sports.

 **Piyush Mishra** is a first-year Master of Engineering Management student.
An experiential learning advocate, Piyush has worked as a technical consultant
and a content developer. When not busy with coursework and assignments, he
spends his time running an Instagram channel and exploring places.

 **Ishaan Mehrotra** is a freshman majoring in biomedical engineering major on
the premed track while simultaneously pursuing an Innovation and
Entrepreneurship Certificate. Ishaan was born in Connecticut but grew up in
Charleston, South Carolina. His favorite hobbies include playing sports
(especially soccer and table tennis), going to the gym, hanging out with
friends and discovering new music.

 **Nikhila Murali** is an international student from India, currently pursuing
her Masters in Engineering Management. She is an aspiring product manager and
was a consultant at Deloitte prior to attending Duke. She is also actively
involved as an executive member in the MEMPDC Consulting club as well as in
the External Engagement wing of the DUU. In her free time, she likes to travel
and enjoys spending time with the nature.

 _Editor not pictured: **Sofia Rodriguez**_

## Letter from the Dean

It’s an honor to welcome you to the pages of the longrunning _DukEngineer
Magazine_ as the new Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. The
content within is a credit to the accomplishments of my predecessors, most
recently Ravi Bellamkonda and Jeff Glass. My thanks to both for everything
they have done to make Pratt the preeminent engineering program I feel so
excited to lead.

I was drawn to this opportunity because of the unique qualities that
distinguish Duke from its peers. Duke students enjoy an educational experience
equally shaped by design, innovation and a rich offering of co-curricular
opportunities afforded by a liberal arts institution. Distinct areas of
excellence such as biomedical technology, quantum computing and materials grow
ever-brighter with the addition of talented new faculty. And there is a
youthful energy that makes anything seem possible, as evidenced in the
ambitious visions of the Pratt 2039 strategic exercise.

Last fall, I was lucky enough to get to know the community better through
events such as the Board of Visitors meeting and the celebration of the grand
opening of the Wilkinson Building. It quickly became clear to me what it is
that makes Duke Engineering such a special place: the people who call it home.

I have already begun meeting with faculty one-on-one to learn about their
programs and aspirations, as well as staff and student groups that are working
to make Duke Engineering a more vibrant and inclusive community. In an effort
to match the high level of engagement I’ve encountered across the entire
campus, I am also beginning a regular series of small gatherings called Table
Talks to hear from anyone who wants to join me in discussion.

> “I wholeheartedly believe that Duke and Pratt are ready to rise to meet the
> challenge, and I look forward finding out just how high we can go together.”

One thing that I have already heard loud and clear is that we have much work
to do—both as engineers living within a world full of grand challenges and as
people living and working together to meet them. I plan to start my tenure as
dean by redoubling our efforts to create a diverse and inclusive community. We
must also continue to explore and amplify our investments in frontier research
areas such as climate solutions, artificial intelligence, robotics and digital
health.

None of this is easy. All of it requires leadership. It requires innovation.
And it requires diversity of thought and approach. But I wholeheartedly
believe that Duke and Pratt are ready to rise to meet the challenge, and I
look forward finding out just how high we can go together.

 **Jerome P. Lynch, PhD, F.EMI**  
Vinik Dean of Engineering

## Letter from the ESG President

Engineering Student Government (ESG) is proud to serve as a liaison between
administration and engineering students to help improve the experience of
Pratt students. As we begin our new board year, ESG has set out three main
initiatives: build a stronger sense of community within Pratt, improve major
and career advising for students, and ensure accessible mental health
resources that are tailored to our needs. With these initiatives, we aim to
solve the most pressing issues that Pratt students face.

As our lives continue to shift toward pre-pandemic norms, ESG is choosing to
prioritize rebuilding community amongst engineering majors. We are excited to
provide spaces for students to connect with and inspire each other such as
E-Socials, E-Picnics and E- ball, among other activities. In the past,
“E-Socials” have served to allow students to network amongst each other and to
meet recruiters in a more intimate setting. This year, we are proud to
announce E-socials will be back in person! In addition to weekly networking
events, we are excited to bring back larger scale (and well-loved) ESG events
each semester including E-Picnic and E-Ball. These extra-curricular events
promote interpersonal connection that benefits students’ lives inside and
outside of the classroom.

As you know, being an engineering student is difficult. ESG wants to work to
make the lives of engineering students as easy as possible and give them a
strong sense of support. With students facing rigorous courses and busy
schedules, we want to reduce the stress that comes along with deciding on a
major and career. Career events will give Pratt students an understanding of
what potential careers will be a good fit for their skills and interests. To
address these challenges, and minimize the time commitment associated with
these big decisions, we are planning a major fair where students can stop in
and understand their options along with an expansion of online resources
students can access on their own time.

> “ESG wants to work to make the lives of engineering students as easy as
> possible and give them a strong sense of support.”

The final goal for ESG is improving mental health among Pratt Students. Thus
far, we have begun conversations about projects that can improve student well-
being and mental health. We aim to create safe spaces where students can
convene, share about their experiences, and understand they are not alone in
their struggles. Support specific to the Pratt experience will foster an
environment more conducive to vulnerability, empathy and overall better mental
health.

I am so honored to take over this role as Engineering Student Government
President. I feel a strong sense of responsibility and pride having been given
the chance to improve the lives of Pratt students. I am inspired daily by my
peers in a plethora of ways and especially by their resiliency throughout this
pandemic. I look forward to enacting the changes Pratt students want and need.

Best,  
 **Nikita Suri**  
Engineering Student Government President

## Letter from the EGSC President

It is February 2022, effectively two years since I was moved from in-person to
virtual classes. It has been two years since a large shift in the way our
community has been operating. During this time, the Engineering Graduate
Student Council (EGSC) has been working hard to fulfill our purpose, to
facilitate pathways for building holistic relationships throughout Pratt and
to foster a welcoming and safe learning environment. We have had to be
extremely creative to generate safe, comfortable, inclusive spaces that allow
us to create that sense of community that is so important.

We tested out virtual events and orientation, which went well but, as we all
know, are not a substitute for in-person events. But thankfully it seems like
we are starting to turn a corner and are moving toward rebuilding our in-
person gatherings and events (fingers crossed). At the beginning of this
school year, we enjoyed some really exciting in-person events again. We hosted
Pratt chats, outside and socially distanced, with a great energy that felt
nearly back to normal. We celebrated the Mid-Autumn Festival with some moon
cakes in the E-quad for the first time ever. In true Duke colors, we hosted a
watch party for a basketball game and hosted a professional headshot event.

While I truly enjoyed all these events, I joined EGSC because I want the
graduate community to feel close-knit. Close enough where when you are stuck
on a problem, you know what peer will help you overcome that problem. That is
why I am really looking forward to some future events that will be ongoing. We
will celebrate this resilient, hard-working and focused group of graduate
students by showcasing their projects, successes and activities. We will
continue to find ways to facilitate connections between students, so you have
that network to lean on whenever you need it. “Envisioning the Invisible” is
an example of one of those events that is ongoing right now, as a contest that
showcases the unseen beauty of research and, in doing so, what we at Pratt are
working on. I am especially excited to start hosting more events like this. We
are looking forward to working with the new Vinik Dean of Engineering, Dr.
Jerome Lynch, to bring more events to life and bring the Pratt community
closer together.

> “We will celebrate this resilient, hard-working and focused group of
> graduate students by showcasing their projects, successes and activities.”

I look forward to both the end of this school year and the beginning of the
next, with the progress and evolution that Pratt is going to experience. I am
thankful and appreciative of the hard work this team of graduate students has
been putting forward to help continue to bring Pratt together in a safe,
comfortable and inclusive environment. This team includes:

  *  **Brittani Carroll** (Vice President)
  *  **Shreyansh Chordia** (Communications Director)
  *  **Siddhant Sandeep Bapat** (Treasurer)
  *  **Xu Han** (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Community Director)
  *  **Eva Kim** (CEE Representative)
  *  **Kaleb Kassaw** (ECE Representative)
  *  **Ravi Prakash** (MEMS Representative)
  *  **Dimple Malik** (MEM Representative)

I am looking forward to continuing to serve and be a part of the Pratt
community through EGSC.

 **Karsten Poulsen**  
EGSC President

## Letter from the EAC President

Dear Duke Engineering Alumni:

2021 was a year of change and adaptation, yet there is much to celebrate as
the Pratt community continues to find ways to optimize the student experience
and increase meaningful interactions among alumni and students. The
Engineering Alumni Council (EAC) continued virtual engagement initiatives
throughout the year, and while we are grateful that these programs have become
even more impactful through expanded access to a broader range of alumni, we
are invigorated by the prospect of returning key events to campus.

Following two years of canceled plans, this spring we are thrilled to host the
Engineering Awards Banquet to honor Distinguished Engineering Awardees for
2020, 2021 and 2022. To further recognize their achievements, all nine
awardees are featured in this issue of the _DukEngineer_. I encourage you to
read more about the accomplishments and service that make them each uniquely
deserving of distinction and hope you will join fellow alumni, former
professors and current students in celebration at the Washington Duke Inn on
April 22.

The EAC’s ambitious year-round Pratt Mentoring Program continues to grow,
engaging more than 700 alumni and students this year. Our goal is to expand
the scope of the mentoring relationship to embrace student purpose, character
and well-being as a complement to Pratt’s 360 Coaching advising strategy.
Students have requested further engagement opportunities, and we look forward
to including career panel discussions and connections to internship
opportunities as the program matures.

> “Your involvement helps drive an enriched experience for our current
> students and other alumni.”

Transition to an online platform has also significantly expanded alumni
participation in the EAC’s resume and mock interview workshops and aligns the
student experience with current interviewing norms. Our two-hour virtual event
in January engaged over 600 Pratt alumni and students. With interview sessions
blocked for eight minutes, students were able to be matched with multiple
alumni, resulting in 1,795 total interactions. The virtual platform
efficiently delivers multiple opportunities for the students to engage with
alumni, hone their resume and interview skills, and seek general advice on
work and networking.

Pratt alumni play a key role in supporting students and maintaining a vibrant
exchange of knowledge and resources. On behalf of the EAC, my heartfelt thanks
to the many alumni who give freely of their time and consistently demonstrate
overwhelming dedication and willingness to connect with current students and
the world-changing ideas they are forming.

Thank you for staying connected to Duke and the Pratt School of Engineering.
Your involvement helps drive an enriched experience for our current students
and other alumni. Contact pamela.hanson@duke.edu to get involved in our
signature initiatives and for more information on the 2022 Engineering Awards
Banquet. We look forward to seeing you back on campus or at a virtual event
soon. Forever Duke!

 **Tracy Nickelsburg E'88, P'22, P'25**  
President, Engineering Alumni Council

## Alumni & Development News

  * Class Notes
  * In Memory
  * Annual Fund
  * Donor Honor Roll

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## Growing Duke Engineering’s Strengths

### A Conversation With Jerome P. Lynch

Duke's New Vinik Dean of Engineering discusses his background, joining the
Pratt School of Engineering and his plans for the future

### Merging Policy and Technology for a Resilient Water System

New CEE faculty member Andrew Jones III is pursuing ways to remove tough
biofilms and bring water equity to communities

### Duke Takes a Quantum Leap

The Duke Quantum Center has the excitement of a startup and the ambition to
match as it races to compete with the likes of Google and IBM

## The Duke Engineering Difference

### Hybrid Classes in the New Normal

How Duke Engineering instructors and students shifted to hybrid in-person and
remote classes during the pandemic

### The Class of 2022’s First Bond

A look back at the critical role EGR 101 played in the future of its first
class of Duke Engineers

## Launching New Programs

### Let’s Talk About All Things Space Duke Space Initiative

An inside look at Duke's growing Space Initiative that brings together
resources from across campus

### A First-Hand Dive into Duke’s AI for Product Innovation Master's Program

An account of the first year in as Duke 'AIPI' student

## Engineering Fuel

### A Tale as Old as Twinnie’s

While the menu items or décor may change, Twinnie’s Cafe was, is and shall
forever remain an inseparable, salient feature of Duke Engineering

## Distinguished Alumni Awards 2020-2022

### Fred Fehsenfeld Jr.: 2020 Distinguished Alumni Award

Fred M. Fehsenfeld, Jr. is a third-generation Fehsenfeld family business
leader, currently serving as Chairman of The Heritage Group Holdings Company
Board

### Laurie Conner: 2021 Distinguished Alumni Award

Laurie Conner is president of The Detection Group, an emerging growth company
providing cloud-based IoT water solutions for the built environment

### Nick Naclerio: 2022 Distinguished Alumni Award

Nicholas Naclerio develops and commercializes innovative technologies in
semiconductors, genomics and health care

### Leslie Voorhees Means: 2020 Distinguished Young Alumni Award

Leslie Voorhees Means is the co-founder and CEO of Anomalie, the first direct-
to-consumer wedding dress company

### Lisa Burton O’Toole: 2021 Distinguished Young Alumni Award

Lisa Burton O'Toole provides investment and resources for early-stage, women-
led startups across media, data, health care and technology

### Andrew Waterman: 2022 Distinguished Young Alumni Award

Andrew Waterman is chief engineer at SiFive, where he designs high-performance
microprocessors

### George Truskey: 2020 Distinguished Service Award

George Truskey has been at Duke for nearly three and a half decades serving in
a wide variety of roles

### Adrienne Stiff-Roberts: 2021 Distinguished Service Award

Adrienne Stiff-Roberts's impact over nearly 20 years can be felt throughout
every corner of the school and even into the surrounding community

### Linda Franzoni: 2022 Alumni Distinguished Service Award

During nearly 25 years at Duke, Linda Franzoni has served in many capacities
for many organizations ranging from student groups to international boards

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

