

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Campus & Tours » Facilities

# The Fitzpatrick Center

The Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary Engineering, Medicine and Applied
Sciences (FCIEMAS) was designed to position the Pratt School of Engineering
and its partners to make major advancements in the fields of:

  * Bioengineering
  * Photonics
  * Communications
  * Materials Science and Materials Engineering

It supports specialized initiatives that drive interdisciplinary activities,
and encourages the creative interactions essential for making significant
progress in these fields. Students working in the Fitzpatrick Center learn
that major advances occur at the boundaries between disciplines.

This comprehensive facility provides extensive wet bench laboratories,
departmental offices, teaching labs, and other lab support spaces, and provide
direct access to the café.

A highlight is a state-of-the-science cleanroom for nanotechnology research.
The center's carefully designed interaction spaces and proximity to the Duke
University Medical Center and colleagues in photonics and materials
engineering have fostered highly productive collaborative projects.

## In the Building

### Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF)

The first floor of the Fitzpatrick Building contains Duke's Shared Materials
Instrumentation Facility, a visualization studio and the Dickinson Arcade. The
Shared Instrumentation Facility has a Class 100-1000 characterization and
testing facility to enable the study, creation and manipulation of biological,
chemical, photonic and mechanical materials at the nanoscale, one billionth of
a meter.

It is a joint venture of the Pratt School of Engineering and the Trinity
College of Arts and Sciences.

### The Visualization Studio and Dickinson Arcade

The Elizabeth and Gary Dickinson Arcade contains a studio with a variety of
sensors, and six-sided 3-D Visroom taking data from those sensors and
delivering back-projected virtual reality images on each room surface. A
unique facility, it is used to visualize three-dimensional data, and explore
human perception.

### The Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics

The second and third floors of the Fitzpatrick Building supports the
Fitzpatrick Center for Photonics, which is dedicated to photonics, the
integration of light with electronics to manage and transmit information. The
center focuses on exploring and exploiting the interface between the physical
and digital world, and educating tomorrow’s photonics leaders.

### Fitzpatrick South

The south building of the west complex is a large auditorium, undergraduate
laboratories and the school’s Integrated Sensors and Simulators initiative.

On the first floor is the 206-seat Kenneth T. Schiciano Auditorium, reflecting
the latest multimedia technologies and design. It is the primary setting for
everything from major symposia to academic instruction. Fitzpatrick Center
donors and Duke Engineering members of the National Academy of Engineering are
honored on a Wall of Recognition in the atrium.

The 2nd and 3rd floors of the south building are devoted to Pratt’s Integrated
Sensors and Simulators Initiative. This effort, drawing on expertise from the
departments of civil and environmental engineering and electrical and computer
engineering, seeks innovative approaches to emerging problem areas such as
shifting climate patterns detection. The 2nd floor supports the initiative’s
hydrology and fluid dynamics groups.

The 3rd floor includes the Applied Remote Sensing Center, which is leading a
four-university effort to develop techniques to direct sensors seeking hidden
war targets.

### Our Smart Bridges

Linking the east and west complexes are twin two-story bridges. Serving as
thoroughfares between the 2nd and 3rd floors of the southern buildings of both
complexes, the bridges also provide inviting places for faculty and students
to interact.

Beneath the bridges is a paved courtyard serving as a continuation of the
pedestrian walkway leading to the Engineering Quadrangle to the north and
central West Campus to the south.

#### Smart Camera

Under each specially marked tile along one side of the main hallway floor are
special actuators that directly contact Optical Fiber Bragg Grating sensors.
These sensors are embedded in a fiber array that runs the length of the
hallway.

Upon stepping or tapping on one of these designated floor tiles, the small
change in reflected wavelength from the associated optical sensor is detected
by the optical interrogator equipment in the control room, and the software
instructs a video camera to pan, zoom, and tilt to the location of the
disturbed tile.

The live image from the video camera is broadcast via a wireless connection.
With a laptop computer and a wireless connection, people stepping on the tile
will be able to see themselves in real time on their PC screen. And as they
continue to walk down the hallway to another marked tile, the camera will pan
zoom and tilt to their new location.

#### Smart Bridge

Embedded beneath the tiles of the bridge is an optical fiber sensors array
comprised of 15 Optical Fiber Bragg Grating sensors, spaced approximately
every meter. The sensors are capable of detecting dimensional changes in the
surrounding structure on the order of 1/10,000th of a percent (or on the order
of a micro-strain).

The sensors, along with a high speed swept-laser interrogator, and software
system comprise a true, real time structural monitoring system that provides
stress, strain and temperature information about the bridge connecting the
buildings.

The display monitor indicates instantaneous changes in the stress at each
sensor along the bridge, and updates at 60 times per second. The stress
history for each sensor is averaged and displayed on the right hand-side
graph, so that the effects wind, load, and temperature-induced stresses, for
example, can be monitored, recorded, and analyzed. Special mounting techniques
are utilized for the stress sensors to ensure intimate contact with the
surrounding structure, whereas, the temperature sensors are physically
isolated from the surrounding concrete.

These smart camera and smart bridge systems were provided by Chandler
Innovations Inc. and Keehi Technologies, Inc.

### The Fitzpatrick Center North

Overlooking the courtyard and a paved terrace on the quad is Twinnie’s Café,
located in the northwest corner of the first floor of the North Building.
Twinnie's is the lifelong nickname of former Dean Kristina Johnson's mother,
Kathleen B. Johnson, who was a twin. The café is a natural gathering place for
faculty, staff, students and visitors, serving coffee, teas and a variety of
light fare.

The rest of the first floor of the biomed and Vinik buildings is devoted to
bioengineering. The Pratt Bioengineering Initiative builds on the Duke BME's
close relationship with the Duke University School of Medicine. It aims to
improve human health, from insights into cell behavior to devices that
regulate the rhythms and chemical tides of the body. Key programs on the 1st
floor include neuroengineering, tissue engineering, genomic technology and the
Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering, a multi-disciplinary center
focusing on protein engineering, cellular engineering and tissue engineering.

Most of the second floor of the biomed building is dedicated to faculty of the
School of Medicine, including cardiology, anesthesiology and orthopedics. The
Jim Wyngaarden Hall of Honor is also on the second floor. Wyngaarden was
chairman of medicine at Duke and chief of staff of Duke Hospital before being
appointed director of the National Institutes of Health in 1982.

The third floor of the east complex houses the Master of Engineering
Management program (Duke MEM) and the Biologically Inspired Materials research
initiative. The office suite for Duke MEM is located in the northwest corner
of the third floor. This master's degree program integrates engineering and
business principles to develop future leaders of technology-based
organizations. Facilities include administrative offices, a student gathering
space/conference room, student lockers and a student computer laboratory.

### The Vinik Building

Bioengineering labs and offices are on the first floor, and the Institute for
Genome Sciences and Policy (IGSP) occupies the second floor. IGSP represents
Duke’s campus-wide response to the broad challenges of the Genome Revolution.
The institute is organized into five centers and the offices and labs of the
Center for Genomic Medicine and the Center for Genome Technology are located
on the second floor. There also is lab space for IGSP computational research,
a conference center and administrative offices.

## History of the Fitzpatrick Center

The Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary Engineering, Medicine and Applied
Sciences opened on schedule in August 2004, more than doubling the Pratt
School of Engineering’s teaching and research space. The four-building
322,000-square-foot complex is more than bricks and mortar. It represents a
fundamental shift from a traditional academic departmental focus by bringing
together faculty from across scientific disciplines working in four research
initiatives: biology, photonics, materials and integrated sensors.

The Fitzpatrick Center, under construction since May 2002, features
undergraduate teaching and project labs, state-of-the-art research facilities
and “intellectual collision spaces” where faculty, staff and students can work
together. The $97 million complex was designed by the architectural firm
Zimmer Gunsul Frasca Partnership, and built by Skanska. The Fitzpatrick Center
complex is also one of Duke University's first facilities to meet LEED
(Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design) building standards.

The Fitzpatrick Center supports teaching and research efforts in
bioengineering; photonics and communications systems; integrated environmental
sensing and simulation; and biologically inspired materials sciences and
materials engineering. It also expands the Pratt School of Engineering’s
partnership with the School of Medicine, providing laboratories for
collaborative research in healthcare, genomics and biotechnology. In 2005 it
will bring on-line a nanofabrication facility to support Pratt’s
collaborations with the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences. The Fitzpatrick
Center also houses Pratt’s professional masters degree program in engineering
management and entrepreneurship in collaboration with the School of Law and
the Fuqua School of Business.

The Fitzpatrick Center consists of a west and an east complex, each with two
buildings. A courtyard leading to a landscaped pedestrian corridor to the
south links the Fitzpatrick Center to the historic core of the university’s
West academic campus. To the north is a new Engineering Quadrangle leading to
Hudson Hall, the original West Campus engineering building, and the Nello L.
Teer Library Building, and Vesic Library for Engineering, Mathematics and
Physics.

The west complex has two buildings named after Michael J. and Patricia W.
Fitzpatrick in honor of their most generous gift in founding the Fitzpatrick
Center for Photonics and Communications. The east complex has a biomed
building and a connected building named for Jeffrey N. Vinik, and will support
the Duke Bioengineering Initiative.

Throughout the Fitzpatrick Center, Duke has integrated science and engineering
into the aesthetics of the building design. All the women's restrooms in the
complex feature a tile pattern that recreates one of the BRCA1 breast cancer
genes. In the men's restrooms, the tile pattern recreates the Bone Morphogenic
Protein (BMP1) that controls the formation of cartilage in vivo.

### Frit Designs

The windows in the Fitzpatrick Center feature etched patterns called "frit."
The Pratt School held a competition in which many ideas for simple, repeatable
engineering symbols nominated and then voted on. Ultimately two finalists were
chosen. The Fitzpatrick buildings feature a reproduction of Leonardo daVinci’s
"Spectra," and the FCIEMAS North and Vinik Buildings feature Adrian Bejan's
"constructal tree" - a symbol of the union between engineering and living
systems.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

