

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Campus & Tours » Facilities

# Welcome to the Wilkinson Building!

After years of planning and construction, Duke Engineering is proud to
announce the opening of the Wilkinson Building.

This transformational space embodies our vision for collaborative research and
creative engineering education with **three research neighborhoods** bringing
together faculty focused on advances in health, computing and the environment;
centers for **engineering entrepreneurship and innovation** , and state-of-
the-art design labs and flexible classrooms that **expand our education space
by 50 percent.** Explore this landmark facility below.

## 20201110_westcampus_fall124_wilkinson-5s.gif

## Explore the Wilkinson Building: Slideshow

  * The 150,000-square-foot Wilkinson Building sits at the intersection of the
    Schools of Engineering, Medicine and Arts & Sciences just steps from
    Duke’s historic West Campus. The building is named in honor of longtime
    supporters Jerry C. (E'67) and Beverly A. Wilkinson and their family
    (learn more).

  * The lobby of the Wilkinson Building features the Sartor Family Media Wall,
    the Bseisu Family Coffee Bar, a hologram projection room and terrific
    views of Duke Chapel.

  * Garage labs on the main level of the Wilkinson Building not only offer
    makerspace for engineering design teams, but garage doors that open onto a
    wide patio to facilitate work on large projects such as electric vehicles,
    monowheels and more.

  * The Wilkinson Building's four active-learning classrooms feature
    reconfigurable furniture, outlets and A/V technology to allow maximum
    flexibility for teaching, whether through traditional lectures or team-
    based, hands-on formats.

  * The active-learning classrooms include whiteboards on all walls.

  * The J. Stephen and Susan G. Simon Classroom and Theodore Kennedy Classroom
    are among the reconfigurable teaching spaces in the Wilkinson Building.

  * The Wilkinson Building’s 200-seat auditorium features state-of-the-art
    audiovisual equipment and flexible seating to allow students to shift from
    lecture-based learning to tabletop teamwork.

  * The Learning Commons provides a place for students and faculty to study,
    mingle and collaborate.

  * The Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship initiative (“Duke EngEn”) will make
    its home in the Wilkinson Building, with a centrally located
    Sondland/Durant Center for Entrepreneurship serving students and faculty
    across campus who focus on delivering technological innovations and
    solutions to the marketplace.

  * The Christensen Family Center for Innovation provides space for
    engineering design programs and initiatives.

  * The Wilkinson Building’s research neighborhoods are designed to foster
    interaction, with wide, open hallways and shared conference spaces.

  * The Environment Research Neighborhood on the second floor of the Wilkinson
    Building brings together researchers focused on environmental health and
    sustainability.

  * A conference room on the second floor of the Wilkinson Building enjoys a
    picturesque view of Duke Chapel.

  * The Alan L. and Carol M. Kaganov Health Neighborhood on the third floor of
    the Wilkinson Building brings together interdisciplinary researchers whose
    work seeks to improve human health.

  * In the Computing and Intelligent Systems Neighborhood on the fourth floor,
    a graduate lounge features views of Gothic buildings on the historic West
    Campus.

  * The soaring skylight at the top of the Wilkinson Building streams light
    through the stairwell to floors below.

  * The fourth-floor Derrick Family Terrace features sweeping views of Duke
    Chapel, the Harrington Engineering Quad and the Duke University Medical
    Center campus. Tiles on the floor recognize every department chair who has
    served since the school's founding in 1939.

## Explore the Wilkinson Building: Videos

### Welcome to the Wilkinson Building

Dean Ravi Bellamkonda on how the Wilkinson Building will transform the Duke
Engineering experience for students and faculty alike.

3 Minutes  

### Designed for Active Learning

Duke Engineering junior Javier Franco (a construction intern on the Wilkinson
Building) and undergraduate dean Linda Franzoni share their favorite
educational spaces—from active-learning classrooms to “garage labs” for hands-
on design.

2 Minutes

### Neighborhoods for Research Innovation

With three floors bringing together faculty focused on health, computing and
the environment, and a location that fosters cross-campus collaborations, the
Wilkinson Building promises to accelerate advances in engineering research.

2 Minutes

### A Hub for Engineering Entrepreneurship & Innovation

With new centers for students and faculty working to design and deliver tech-
based innovations to society, the Wilkinson Building will be a hub for
engineering entrepreneurship.

3.5 minutes

### Wilkinson Tour: Director’s Cut

Enjoy a full tour of the Wilkinson Building with Duke Engineering Facilities
Director Mitchell Vann.

18 minutes

### Time Lapse: 2 Years in 2 Minutes

Watch the Wilkinson Building rise next to Duke's Bostock Library between 2018
and 2020.

2 minuteS

### Architectural Perspectives

A video from Wilkinson Building architecture firm Bohlin Cywinski Jackson.
Read an interview with the architects to learn more about their insightful
design decisions informed by conversations with Duke Engineering faculty,
staff and students.

2 minutes

### Art Collection Preview

Reflecting the creativity of engineering, the Wilkinson Building will be home
to inspiring works of art from local, national and international artists. Get
a sneak preview of what our galleries will hold in this video from the Duke
Engineering Art Committee.

1 minute

### Higher: The Vision (2018)

In this pre-construction video, President Vincent Price, Provost Sally
Kornbluth and Dean Bellamkonda describe the vision behind Duke’s planned new
engineering building.

2 minutes

## News Highlights

October 15, 2020  

### Duke’s New Engineering Building Named to Honor Wilkinson Family

January 21, 2021  

### Construction Transforms Campus—and Students, Thanks to Internships

January 21, 2021  

### Interview with the Architects: Behind the Design of the Wilkinson Building

January 21, 2021  

### The Wilkinson Building Art Collection: Celebrating Creativity in
Engineering

View all Wilkinson Building news

Building for the Future of Duke

Learn more about the new Wilkinson Building—named in honor of Jerry A. and
Beverly C. Wilkinson and family—and see how you can add your name to the new
facility with a gift of support at pratt.duke.edu/higher »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

