Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Master of Engineering (MEng) in Risk Engineering

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate
  3. Masters

Use big data and models to assess risk and guide decisions

Mitigating losses and human impacts to a range of extreme events, including
financial, public health, environmental, and climatalogical crises is far more
cost-effective than paying for recovery, remediation, and reconstruction.

Duke's Master of Engineering (MEng) in Risk Engineering emphasizes a systems
approach and the use of statistical decision theory to assess the potential
for extreme events, and the costs and benefits of their consequences.

> “We’re seeing events that we could have never previously predicted. We need
> to create systems that are robust in case things don’t turn out exactly as
> we expect.”
>
> **Mark Borsuk** |Co-director, Duke Risk Engineering Program

## Career Areas

Graduates from this program will be prepared to work in:

  * Risk assessment
  * Engineering and business consulting
  * Insurance
  * Financial engineering
  * Infrastructure analysis, and more

Download brochure

## Scholarships

We offer significant support for competitive applicants—typical scholarships
range from

### $20,000-$30,000

## Concentration Areas

Our students explore concentration areas including:

  * Environment and Public Policy
  * Materials and Structures
  * Energy and Climate Systems

* * *

## Degree requirements

  * 30 course credits
  * 1 Seminar
  * Internship Opportunity

* * *

## How to Apply

**Application deadlines:**

  * For fall entry, visit the Duke Engineering MEng website »

Apply Now

* * *

## Who Should Consider Applying?

  * Practicing engineers and scientists with backgrounds in civil,
    environmental, or another branch of engineering who wish to earn a
    master’s degree providing them with expertise in risk analysis, added
    competence in an engineering specialty, proficiency in risk policy,
    economics, or law, and advanced leadership and management skills

  * Duke undergraduates who wish to participate in a 4+1: BSE+Master’s program
    that builds on, and complements, their undergraduate education
  * Other recent undergraduates in engineering (or a related mathematical or
    physical sciences, with appropriate catch-up courses) who wish to obtain a
    non-thesis master’s degree in preparation for professional work or as a
    first step towards subsequent graduate study.

* * *

## How A Master's in Risk Engineering Will Differentiate You in Your Career

  * Engineering positions in model-based risk assessment increasingly require
    master's-level training.
  * Analysis and management of risks in the modern world requires knowledge of
    the economic, policy, and societal context, in addition to the technical
    and mathematical foundations.
  * Expertise in probabilistic modeling, data analysis, risk assessment, and
    decision-making under uncertainty is critically important to a broad range
    of academic, industrial, and governmental career paths.
  * Graduates from this program will be prepared to work in a wide variety of
    sectors including risk assessment, engineering and business consulting,
    insurance and re-insurance industry, financial engineering, and
    infrastructure analysis, among others.
  * Students completing the program will be well-prepared to continue on in
    PhD programs in systems engineering, financial engineering, operations
    research, or infrastructure engineering.

##

* * *

## Learn from World Leaders in the Field

Our faculty bring experience and expertise from engineering and data science.
Leaders of the Master of Engineering in Risk Engineering are:

### Mark Borsuk

Research interests include mathematical models for integrating scientific
information on natural, technical, and social systems; Bayesian network
modeling with application to environmental and human health regulation and
decision making; novel approaches to climate change assessment.

### Henri Gavin

Research interests include structural dynamics, earthquake engineering,
seismic hazard mitigation for building contents, nonlinear dynamics, system
identification, optimal control with application to systems with controllable
damping.

### Johann Guilleminot

Research focuses on uncertainty quantification, computational mechanics and
materials science, as well as on topics at the interface between these fields.

##

* * *

## Program Details

The Master of Engineering in Risk Engineering is a 30-credit degree
distributed as:

  * Core Industry Preparation Courses (6 credits)
  * Core Engineering Courses (6 credits)
  * Methodological Requirements (9 credits)
  * Technical Electives in a Concentration Area (9 credits)
  * Internship, Project or Equivalent (0 credits)

Curriculum and Requirements

    

#### I. Course Requirements in Business Fundamentals, Leadership and
Management (6 credits; 2 courses)

  * MENG 540: Management of High Tech Industries (3 credits)
  * MENG 570: Business Fundamentals for Engineers (3 credits)

#### II. Core Course Requirements in Uncertainty, Risk, and Systems
Engineering (6 credits; 2 courses)

  * CEE 690: Uncertainty and Risk in Engineering (3 credits)
  * EGRMGMT 590: Introduction to Systems Engineering

#### III. Methodological Requirements (9 credits; 3 courses, each from a
different area of:)

Mathematical Modeling and Optimization

    

  * CEE 627: Linear Systems Theory
  * CEE 629: System Identification
  * CEE 690: Numerical Optimization
  * PHYS 513: Nonlinear Dynamics
  * MATH 551: Applied Partial Differential Equations and Complex Variables
  * MATH 555: Ordinary Differential Equations
  * MATH 561: Numerical Linear Algebra, Optimization and Monte Carlo
    Simulation
  * MATH 577: Mathematical Modeling

Uncertainty Quantification and Data Analytics

    

  * CEE 644: Inverse Problems in Geosciences and Engineering
  * CEE 690: Uncertainty Quantification
  * ECE 555: Probability for Electrical and Computer Engineers
  * ECE 581: Random Signals and Noise
  * ECE 585: Signal Detection and Extraction Theory
  * COMPSCI 571: Machine Learning
  * COMPSCI 579: Statistical Data Mining
  * MATH 541: Applied Stochastic Processes
  * STA 502: Bayesian Inference & Decision
  * STA 601: Bayesian and Modern Statistics
  * STA 611: Introduction to Modern Statistics
  * STA 623: Statistical Decision Theory

Valuation, Assessment, and Decision Making

    

  * CEE 679: Environmental Engineering Project Management
  * ENERGY 590: Applied Energy Economics
  * ECON 753: Natural Resource Economics
  * ENVIRON 520/521: Resource and Environmental Economics
  * ENVIRON 638: Environmental Life Cycle Analysis & Decision
  * ENVIRON 717: Markets for Electric Power
  * ENVIRON 640: Climate Change Economics

Policy Analysis

    

  * PUBPOL 504: Counterterrorism Law and Policy
  * PUBPOL 505S: National Security Decision Making
  * PUBPOL 580S: Water Cooperation and Conflict
  * PUBPOL 582: Global Environmental Health: Economics and Policy
  * PUBPOL 583S: Energy and U.S. National Security
  * PUBPOL 585: Climate Change Economics and Policy
  * PUBPOL 607: Cost-Benefit Analysis for Health and Environmental Policy
  * LAW 590: Risk Regulation

#### IV. Concentration Area Requirements (9 credits; 3 courses)

Environment and Population Health

    

  * CEE 560: Environmental Transport Phenomena
  * CEE 561: Environmental Aquatic Chemistry
  * CEE 563: Fate and Behavior of Organic Contaminants
  * CEE 571: Control of Hazardous and Toxic Waste
  * CEE 581: Pollutant Transport Systems
  * CEE 667: Chemical Transformations of Environmental Contaminants
  * CEE 683: Groundwater Hydrology and Contaminant Transport
  * CEE 684: Physical Hydrology and Hydrometeorology
  * ENVIRON 539: Human Health & Ecological Risk Assessment
  * ENVIRON 563: Cost-Benefit Analysis for Health and Environmental Policy

Materials and Structures

    

  * CEE 525. Wave Propagation in Elastic and Poroelastic Media
  * CEE 621. Plasticity
  * CEE 642. Environmental Geomechanics
  * CEE 520. Continuum Mechanics
  * CEE 541. Structural Dynamics
  * ME 527. Buckling of Engineering Structures
  * ME 555. Computational Materials Science
  * ME 742. Nonlinear Mechanical Vibration
  * BME 590. Viscoelastic Biomechanics

Energy and Climate Systems

    

  * CEE 575: Air Pollution Control Engineering
  * ENERGY 716: Modeling for Energy Systems
  * ENERGY 711: Energy and the Environment
  * ENERGY 630: Transportation and Energy
  * ENERGY 631: Energy Technology and Impact on the Environment
  * ENERGY 635: Energy Economics and Policy
  * EOS 512: Climate Change and Climate Modeling

#### V. An internship, applied research experience or project (0 credits)

  * MENG 550: Internship or Applied Research Project
  * MENG 551: Internship/Project Assessment

Sample Curriculum: MEng in Risk Engineering

    

_(This table does not reflect choice of specialization.)_

Fall Year 1 Spring Year 1 Summer Year 1 Fall Year 2  
Core Industry Preparation Courses **MENG 570:** Business Fundamentals for
Engineers **MENG 540:** Leadership & Management Principles for Technology-
Based Organizations **MENG 550:** Internship or Applied Research Project
**MENG 551:** Internship/Project Assessment  
  
Core Requirements

**EGRMGMT 590:** Introduction to Systems Engineering **CEE 690:** Uncertainty
and Risk in Engineering  
Departmental Requirements **Methodological Requirements** **Methodological
Requirements** ****Methodological Requirements****  
Departmental Requirements **Application Area Requirements** **Application Area
Requirements** **Application Area Requirements**  
  
## More Information

Admissions Profile

    

The Duke Master of Engineering (MEng) program does not require a minimum GPA
or a minimum score on the GRE or TOEFL. The program does not require work
experience. Average GRE, TOEFL and grade-point averages of recently admitted
Duke MEng applicants were*:

  * GRE Quantitative: 163-169
  * GRE Verbal: 152-161
  * UGPA: 3.4-3.7

* Mid-50% range

Scholarships and Cost of Attendance

    

**We offer significant support for competitive applicants** – typical
scholarships range from $20,000-$30,000.

For details on the cost of attendance _**before**_ scholarships, go to the
Duke Engineering MEng website.

  * Learn more about Duke CEE financial support

Financial Aid and Fellowships

    

For costs after scholarships, many students take out loans and believe there
will be an excellent return on investment when they get out into the work
force.

Limited additional financial aid is available to highly qualified candidates
through academic scholarships with an emphasis on increasing diversity within
the program.

#### Diversity Scholarships

Underrepresented minorities may receive up to 50 percent per year in tuition
scholarship through our Diversity Scholarships.

#### Externally Funded Scholarships

We also offer support to recipients of select competitively externally funded
scholarships, such as

  * National Science Foundation (NSF) Fellowships
  * Fulbright Scholar Program

#### DoD SMART Scholarship Program

**For US Citizens only –** The Science, Mathematics And Research for
Transformation (SMART) Scholarship for Service Program has been established by
the Department of Defense (DoD) to support undergraduate and graduate students
pursuing degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
disciplines. The program aims to increase the number of civilian scientists
and engineers working at DoD laboratories. Read more

#### Veteran's Benefits

Duke University offers information for veterans who are applying for VA
benefits, including the Yellow Ribbon Program.

#### Federal Loan Programs

Duke University offers the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Programs for
graduate students, including Stafford unsubsidized loans, Graduate PLUS, and
Carl Perkins loans. Each of these loans has different terms and conditions,
but they are generally deferrable until after graduation or until the student
is enrolled for less than half-time.

These federal loans are available only to United States citizens. Visit the
Duke Financial Aid website for more information and application procedures for
student loans.

#### On-Campus Work

While enrolled in the program, many students work in a variety of places, such
as campus libraries and various departments within Duke University. Teaching
assistantships are available in various departments, and some departments have
research assistantships as well.

These positions are paid an hourly rate, and most students work between 10 to
20 hours per week. Positions are generally posted and filled just a week or
two before classes begin each semester.

#### External Funding Opportunities

Browse our extensive list of potential external funding opportunities.

Career Services

    

We provide outstanding career support to our master's students.

As a Duke master's student, you can take advantage of our comprehensive and
aggressive career development and job search program. You will receive advice
from our Master's Assistant Directors of Career Services who work with the
Duke Career Center to coordinate various activities throughout the year.

Our career services include:

  * On-campus recruiting
  * Individual and group career coaching
  * Special networking events such as Career Fairs, Tech Connect, Night with
    Industry and Alumni Networking Event
  * Resume and cover letter development, interviewing tips, and social media
    advice

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Mike Bergin

Professor and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5209

__cee-dms@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

