Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Master of Engineering (MEng) in Environmental Engineering

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate
  3. Masters

A Career-Focused Option with an Internship Experience

The challenge of sustainable environmental quality requires innovative
thinking, clear leadership and strong technical expertise.

Duke’s Master of Engineering in Environmental Engineering is ranked a Top 15
program in the United States. We will give you the comprehensive training you
need to become a leader in protecting natural resources.

## Scholarships

We offer significant support for competitive applicants—typical scholarships
range from

### $20,000-$30,000

Our program draws from Duke's Pratt School of Engineering and Nicholas School
of the Environment—so you get the best of our renowned engineering and
environmental research community.

Coursework draws on recent research by our world-class faculty, many of whom
are involved in major federally-funded research centers such as the Superfund
Research Center at Duke.

## Specializations

  * Environmental Data Science
  * Environmental Engineering and Public Policy
  * Environmental Health Engineering
  * Hydrology & Environmental Fluid Dynamics

## How to Apply

  * For fall entry, visit the Duke Engineering MEng website

Apply Now

## Degree Requirements

Overview

    

Master of Engineering (MEng) students complete the Core Industry Preparatory
Courses and Internship, Departmental Requirements, and choose specialization
requirements of (4) four courses.

#### Summary

The curriculum, detailed below, includes:

  * 30 course credits
  * 1 Seminar
  * Internship

#### Curriculum Overview

The Master of Engineering in Environmental Engineering is a 30-credit degree
distributed as follows:

  * Core Industry Preparation Courses (6 credits)
  * Departmental Requirements (15 credits)
  * Specialization Requirements (9 credits)
  * Internship, Applied Research Experience or Project (0 credits)

##### Curriculum Notes

  1. Students are required to attend seminar programs specific to environmental engineering or their specialization
  2. Students may also pursue the MEng in Environmental Engineering without a specialization in which case 3 courses from an extended list of electives as well as courses listed in each of the specializations may be substituted

#### Core Industry Preparation Course Requirements

_(6 credits)_

  * MENG 540: Management of High Tech Industries
  * MENG 570: Business Fundamentals for Engineers

Departmental Requirements

    

_15 credits with at least 1 course each from 5 of the 6 following categories_

Chemistry

    

  * CEE 561: Environmental Aquatic Chemistry - Fall
  * CEE 563: Chemical Fate of Organic Compounds - Fall
  * CEE 565: Environmental Analytical Chemistry – alt. Fall
  * CEE 666: Aquatic Geochemistry – Spring
  * CEE 667: Chemical Transformations of Environmental Contaminants - Alt.
    Spring

Biosciences

    

  * CEE 566: Environmental Microbiology - Fall
  * CEE 661L: Environmental Molecular Biotechnology - Spring
  * CEE 562: Biological Processes in Environmental Engineering - Spring
  * CEE 690: Modeling of Environ., Chem., and Biol. Processes – Fall

Applied Mathematics, Statistics & Data Science

    

  * CEE 501: Applied Mathematics for Engineers - _occasional_
  * CEE 502: Engineering Data Analysis - _occasional_
  * CEE 675: Introduction to the Physical Principles of Remote Sensing of the
    Environment – _odd-year Fall_
  * CEE 690: Data Science and Machine Learning in Applied Science and
    Engineering – _Fall_
  * CEE 690/628: Uncertainty Quantification - _Spring_
  * CEE 690/590: Environmental Spatial Data Analysis – _Fall_
  * CEE 690: Uncertainty and Risk in Engineering
  * ENVIRON 764: Applied Differential Equations in Environmental Science
  * STA 601(L): Bayesian and Modern Statistics
  * STA 611: Introduction to Statistical Methods – _Fall_

Transport Processes & Modeling

    

  * CEE 531: Finite Elements for Fluids
  * CEE 560: Environmental Transport Phenomena – _Fall_
  * CEE 581: Numerical Methods in Env Transport - Spring
  * CEE 683: Groundwater Hydrology and Contaminant Transport – alt. Fall (even
    yrs)
  * CEE 690: Modeling of Environ., Chem., and Biol. Processes _– Fall_
  * CEE 690: Environmental Fluid Mechanics and Sediment Transport - _Spring_

Atmospheric & Hydrologic Processes

    

  * ENVIRON 734L: Watershed Hydrology
  * CEE 575/690: Air Pollution Engineering - _Spring_

  * CEE 5XX/690: Hydrology - _Spring_
  * CEE 683: Groundwater and Vadose Zone Hydrology – _even-year Fall_
  * CEE 684: Physical Hydrology and Hydrometeorology – _alt_. _Fall_
  * CEE 690: Turbulence I – _Fall_
  * CEE 581: Numerical Methods in Env Transport – _Spring_
  * ENVIRON 603 & 604: Air Quality: Management & Human Health Effects - _Fall_

Engineered Systems

    

  * CEE 564: Physical Chemical Processes in Environmental Engineering -
    _Spring_
  * CEE 562: Biological Processes in Environmental Engineering - _Spring_
  * CEE 575/690: Air Pollution Engineering - _Spring_

Specializations

    

_Nine (9) credits satisfied with at least three (3) courses from a
specialization area._

Environmental Data Science

    

  * CEE 675: Intro to Physical Principles of Remote Sensing of Environ.– _odd
    Fall_
  * CEE 690. Risk and Resilience in Engineering – _odd Fall & odd Spring_
  * CEE 690: Data Science and Machine Learning in Applied Science and
    Engineering – _Fall_
  * CEE 690: Environmental Cheminformatics – _alt. Fall_
  * CEE 690: Introduction to Deep Learning – _Fall_
  * CEE 690: Environmental Spatial Data Analysis - _Fall_
  * CEE 690: Model-Based Data Science – _odd Fall_
  * CEE 761: Hydrologic Data Analysis
  * MATH 561: Scientific Computing - _Fall_
  * STA 601(L): Bayesian and Modern Statistics
  * STA 611: Introduction to Statistical Methods – _Fall_
  * ENVIRON 559: Fundamentals of Geographic Information Systems and Geospatial
    Analysis - _Fall_

Environmental Engineering & Public Policy

    

  * ENVIRON 502: Climate Change and the Law
  * ENVIRON 520: Resource and Environmental Economics
  * ENVIRON 531: Economic Valuation of the Environment
  * ENVIRON 552: Climate and Society - _Fall_
  * ENVIRON 563: Cost-Benefit Analysis for Health and Environmental Policy -
    _Fall_
  * ENVIRON 577: Environmental Politics
  * ENVIRON 603: Air Quality Management (1.5 credits) - Fall
  * ENVIRON 604: Air Quality: Human Health Effects (1.5 credits) - Fall
  * ENVIRON 638: Environmental Life Cycle Analysis and Decision
  * ENVIRON 640: Climate Change Economics and Policy
  * ENVIRON 711: Energy and Environment
  * ENVIRON 740: Water Resources Planning and Management
  * ENVIRON 741: Water Resources Finance
  * PUBPOL 577: Environmental Policy
  * PUBPOL 811: Microeconomics: Policy Applications
  * PUBPOL 813: Quantitative Evaluation Methods
  * ENERGY 727: Energy Law

Environmental Health Engineering

    

  * CEE 560: Environmental Transport Phenomena – Fall
  * CEE 561: Environmental Aquatic Chemistry – Fall
  * CEE 562: Biological Processes in Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 563: Chemical Fate of Organic Compounds – Fall
  * CEE 564: Physical Chemical processes in Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 565: Environmental Analytical Chemistry – alt. Spring
  * CEE 566: Environmental Microbiology – Fall
  * CEE 575/690: Air Pollution Engineering
  * CEE 661L: Environmental Molecular Biotechnology – Spring
  * CEE 666: Aquatic Geochemistry – Spring
  * CEE 667: Chemical Transformations of Environmental Contaminants – _alt.
    Spring_
  * CEE 679: Environmental Engineering Project Management
  * CEE 5XX/690: Hydrology - _Spring_
  * CEE 690: Modeling of Environ., Chem., and Biol. Processes – _Fall_
  * CEE 690. Risk and Resilience in Engineering – _odd Fall & odd Spring_
  * CEE 690: Data Science and Machine Learning in Applied Science and
    Engineering – _Fall_
  * CEE 690: Environmental Cheminformatics – _alt. Fall_
  * CEE 690: Environmental Spatial Data Analysis - _Fall_
  * ENVIRON 603: Air Quality: Management (1.5 credits) - Fall
  * ENVIRON 604: Air Quality: Human Health Effects (1.5 credits) - Fall

Hydrology & Environmental Fluid Dynamics

    

  * CEE 531: Finite Elements for Fluids
  * CEE 560: Environmental Transport Phenomena - _Fall_
  * CEE 581: Numerical Methods in Env Transport – _Spring_
  * CEE 675: Introduction to the Physical Principles of Remote Sensing of the
    Environment – _odd Fall_
  * CEE 683: Groundwater Hydrology and Contaminant Transport - Fall
  * CEE 684: Physical Hydrology and Hydrometeorology – _alt. Fall_
  * CEE 688: Turbulence I – _Fall_
  * CEE 642: Environmental Geomechanics
  * ME 536: Compressible Fluid Flow
  * ME 631: Intermediate Fluid Mechanics
  * ME 632/CEE690: Advanced Fluid Mechanics
  * ME 639: Computational Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer
  * CEE 690: Advanced Turbulence Theories
  * CEE690: Hydrology
  * CEE 690: Environmental Fluid Mechanics and Sediment Transport - _Spring_
  * CEE 690: Data Science and Machine Learning in Applied Science and
    Engineering – _Fall_
  * CEE 690/628: Uncertainty Quantification

  * CEE 690: Environmental Spatial Data Analysis – _Fall_
  * ENVIRON 734L: Watershed Hydrology

Degree Without Specialization

    

_Nine (9) credits satisfied by any non-redundant three (3) courses from any of
the above lists, including departmental requirements- or electives approved by
the Director of Master's Studies._

Internship, Project or Equivalent Requirements

    

_(0 credits)_

  * MENG 550: Internship or Applied Research Project
  * MENG 551: Internship/Project Assessment

## More Information

Admissions Profile

    

The Duke Master of Engineering (MEng) program does not require a minimum GPA
or a minimum score on the GRE or TOEFL. The program does not require work
experience. Average GRE, TOEFL and grade-point averages of recently admitted
Duke MEng applicants were*:

  * GRE Quantitative: 163-169
  * GRE Verbal: 152-161
  * UGPA: 3.4-3.7

* Mid-50% range

Scholarships and Cost of Attendance

    

**We offer significant support for competitive applicants** – typical
scholarships range from $20,000-$30,000.

For details on the cost of attendance _**before**_ scholarships, go to the
Duke Engineering MEng website.

  * Learn more about Duke CEE financial support

Financial Aid and Fellowships

    

For costs after scholarships, many students take out loans and believe there
will be an excellent return on investment when they get out into the work
force.

Limited additional financial aid is available to highly qualified candidates
through academic scholarships with an emphasis on increasing diversity within
the program.

#### Diversity Scholarships

Underrepresented minorities may receive up to 50 percent per year in tuition
scholarship through our Diversity Scholarships.

#### Externally Funded Scholarships

We also offer support to recipients of select competitively externally funded
scholarships, such as

  * National Science Foundation (NSF) Fellowships
  * Fulbright Scholar Program

#### DoD SMART Scholarship Program

**For US Citizens only –** The Science, Mathematics And Research for
Transformation (SMART) Scholarship for Service Program has been established by
the Department of Defense (DoD) to support undergraduate and graduate students
pursuing degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
disciplines. The program aims to increase the number of civilian scientists
and engineers working at DoD laboratories. Read more

#### Veteran's Benefits

Duke University offers information for veterans who are applying for VA
benefits, including the Yellow Ribbon Program.

#### Federal Loan Programs

Duke University offers the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Programs for
graduate students, including Stafford unsubsidized loans, Graduate PLUS, and
Carl Perkins loans. Each of these loans has different terms and conditions,
but they are generally deferrable until after graduation or until the student
is enrolled for less than half-time.

These federal loans are available only to United States citizens. Visit the
Duke Financial Aid website for more information and application procedures for
student loans.

#### On-Campus Work

While enrolled in the program, many students work in a variety of places, such
as campus libraries and various departments within Duke University. Teaching
assistantships are available in various departments, and some departments have
research assistantships as well.

These positions are paid an hourly rate, and most students work between 10 to
20 hours per week. Positions are generally posted and filled just a week or
two before classes begin each semester.

#### External Funding Opportunities

Browse our extensive list of potential external funding opportunities.

Career Services

    

We provide outstanding career support to our master's students.

As a Duke master's student, you can take advantage of our comprehensive and
aggressive career development and job search program. You will receive advice
from our Master's Assistant Directors of Career Services who work with the
Duke Career Center to coordinate various activities throughout the year.

Our career services include:

  * On-campus recruiting
  * Individual and group career coaching
  * Special networking events such as Career Fairs, Tech Connect, Night with
    Industry and Alumni Networking Event
  * Resume and cover letter development, interviewing tips, and social media
    advice

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Mike Bergin

Professor and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5209

__cee-dms@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

