Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Master of Engineering in Civil Engineering

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate
  3. Masters

A Career-Focused Option with an Internship Experience

Duke's Master of Engineering (MEng) in Civil Engineering is career-focused
degree option that will deepen your understanding of technology and help you
develop the business leadership and management expertise you need to succeed
in your career.

We offer significant support for competitive applicants—typical **scholarships
range from $20,000-$30,000**.

> "Business courses in the Duke CEE Master of Engineering program provided me
> with valuable skills."
>
> **Rachel Fleming** | Marketing Specialist, Gilbane Building Company Rachel's
> story »

Driven by the ever-expanding breadth and depth of technical knowledge relevant
to a practicing civil engineer, the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE)
believes the master’s degree to be the basic preparation for professional
practice.

Research interests of our world-class faculty including studying ways to
assess risks posed by natural hazards and to protect critical infrastructure
components such as power substations and telecommunication centers from such
hazards.

**Areas of technical concentration include:**

  * Computational Engineering
  * Systems Engineering and Optimization
  * Geo-Systems

**Application deadlines:**

  * For fall entry, visit the Duke Engineering MEng website »

How to Apply

## Scholarships

We offer significant support for competitive applicants—typical scholarships
range from

### $20,000-$30,000

## Degree Program Details

Degree Requirements

    

Master of Engineering students complete the Core Industry Preparatory Courses
and Internship, Departmental Requirements, and will choose specialization
requirements of four courses from our areas of concentration.

#### Summary

The curriculum, detailed below, includes:

  * 30 course credits
  * 1 Seminar
  * Internship

#### 30 Course Credits

The Master of Engineering in Civil Engineering is a 30-credit degree
distributed as follows:

  * Core Industry Preparation Courses (6 credits)
  * Departmental Requirements (12 credits)
  * Degree Concentration Area Requirements (6 credits)
  * Technical Electives (6 credits)
  * Internship, Applied Research Experience, or Project (0 credits)

##### CE Curriculum Notes

  1. At the beginning of their program, each student will be required to propose and gain approval from the Director of Master's Studies (DMS) for a specific curriculum that satisfies the requirements for the MEng degree in Civil Engineering as specified below.
  2. At least fifteen credits must be taken from the Pratt School of Engineering.

#### Overview

##### Core Industry Preparation Course Requirements (6 credits)

  * MENG 540: Management of High Tech Industries
  * MENG 570: Business Fundamentals for Engineers

##### Departmental Requirements (12 credits)

All students are required to take four courses from the following list of
departmental requirements:

  * CEE 520: Continuum Mechanics
  * ME 541/CE 625: Intermediate Dynamics
  * CEE 647: Buckling of Engineering Structures
  * CEE 530: Introduction to Finite Elements
  * CEE 643: Environmental and Engineering Geophysics
  * CEE 541: Structural Dynamics

#### Concentration Areas

All students must take two courses from one of the following three
concentration areas:

##### Computational Engineering

  * CEE 621: Plasticity
  * CEE 630: Nonlinear Finite Element Analysis
  * CEE 635: Computational Methods for Evolving Discontinuities
  * Math 563: Scientific Computing II
  * Math 661: Numerical Solution of Hyperbolic Partial Differential Equations
  * Math 663: Numerical Solution of Elliptic and Parabolic Partial
    Differential Equations
  * ME 639: Computational Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer
  * CS 530: Design and Analysis of Algorithms
  * CS 520: Numerical Analysis

##### Systems Engineering and Optimization

  * CEE 627: Linear Systems
  * CEE 629: System Identification

  * CEE 690: Uncertainty Quantification
  * CEE 690: Numerical Optimization

  * MATH 541: Applied Stochastic Processes

  * MATH 577: Mathematical Modeling

##### Geo-Systems

  * CEE 621: Plasticity
  * CEE 641: Advanced Soil Mechanics
  * CEE 642: Environmental Geomechanics
  * CEE 630: Nonlinear Finite Element Analysis
  * CEE 644: Inverse Problems in Geosciences and Engineering
  * CEE 252: Wave Propagation in Elastic and Poroelastic Media
  * ME 537: Mechanics of Viscous Fluids
  * ME 543: Energy Flow and Wave Propagation in Elastic Solids
  * EOS 540: Introduction to Modeling in the Earth Sciences
  * EOS 543S: Landscape Dynamics
  * EOS 575S: Mineral Resources

#### Technical Electives (6 credits)

Technical Electives provide flexibility to the program while developing
additional depth in a direction of student interest.

A Technical Elective can be any graduate level course, consistent with the
plan of study and approved by the DMS. The order of preference in approving
technical electives is:

  1. Other courses from departmental requirements or degree concentration areas
  2. Courses in mathematics or statistics, such as: 
    * Math 551: Applied Partial Differential Equations and Complex Variables
    * Math 561: Scientific Computing I
    * Stat 611: Introduction to Statistical Methods
  3. Other CEE courses
  4. Other engineering courses

#### Internship, Project or Equivalent Requirements

  * MENG 550: Internship or Applied Research Project
  * MENG 551: Internship/Project Assessment

## More Information

Admissions Profile

    

The Duke Master of Engineering (MEng) program does not require a minimum GPA
or a minimum score on the GRE or TOEFL. The program does not require work
experience. Average GRE, TOEFL and grade-point averages of recently admitted
Duke MEng applicants were*:

  * GRE Quantitative: 163-169
  * GRE Verbal: 152-161
  * UGPA: 3.4-3.7

* Mid-50% range

Scholarships and Cost of Attendance

    

**We offer significant support for competitive applicants** – typical
scholarships range from $20,000-$30,000.

For details on the cost of attendance _**before**_ scholarships, go to the
Duke Engineering MEng website.

  * Learn more about Duke CEE financial support

Financial Aid and Fellowships

    

For costs after scholarships, many students take out loans and believe there
will be an excellent return on investment when they get out into the work
force.

Limited additional financial aid is available to highly qualified candidates
through academic scholarships with an emphasis on increasing diversity within
the program.

#### Diversity Scholarships

Underrepresented minorities may receive up to 50 percent per year in tuition
scholarship through our Diversity Scholarships.

#### Externally Funded Scholarships

We also offer support to recipients of select competitively externally funded
scholarships, such as

  * National Science Foundation (NSF) Fellowships
  * Fulbright Scholar Program

#### DoD SMART Scholarship Program

**For US Citizens only –** The Science, Mathematics And Research for
Transformation (SMART) Scholarship for Service Program has been established by
the Department of Defense (DoD) to support undergraduate and graduate students
pursuing degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
disciplines. The program aims to increase the number of civilian scientists
and engineers working at DoD laboratories. Read more

#### Veteran's Benefits

Duke University offers information for veterans who are applying for VA
benefits, including the Yellow Ribbon Program.

#### Federal Loan Programs

Duke University offers the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Programs for
graduate students, including Stafford unsubsidized loans, Graduate PLUS, and
Carl Perkins loans. Each of these loans has different terms and conditions,
but they are generally deferrable until after graduation or until the student
is enrolled for less than half-time.

These federal loans are available only to United States citizens. Visit the
Duke Financial Aid website for more information and application procedures for
student loans.

#### On-Campus Work

While enrolled in the program, many students work in a variety of places, such
as campus libraries and various departments within Duke University. Teaching
assistantships are available in various departments, and some departments have
research assistantships as well.

These positions are paid an hourly rate, and most students work between 10 to
20 hours per week. Positions are generally posted and filled just a week or
two before classes begin each semester.

#### External Funding Opportunities

Browse our extensive list of potential external funding opportunities.

Career Services

    

We provide outstanding career support to our master's students.

As a Duke master's student, you can take advantage of our comprehensive and
aggressive career development and job search program. You will receive advice
from our Master's Assistant Directors of Career Services who work with the
Duke Career Center to coordinate various activities throughout the year.

Our career services include:

  * On-campus recruiting
  * Individual and group career coaching
  * Special networking events such as Career Fairs, Tech Connect, Night with
    Industry and Alumni Networking Event
  * Resume and cover letter development, interviewing tips, and social media
    advice

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Mike Bergin

Professor and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5209

__cee-dms@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

