Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Master of Engineering (MEng) in Computational Mechanics and Scientific
Computing

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate
  3. Masters

Prepare for a career developing model-based simulations and designs

Duke’s Master of Engineering in Computational Mechanics and Scientific
Computing is one of the most comprehensive in the world—and features a top-
notch faculty.

We offer significant support for competitive applicants—typical **scholarships
range from $20,000-$30,000.**

> "The problem-solving skills I learned were the most valuable part of my Duke
> experience."
>
> **Huidi Ji** |Senior Engineer, SIMULIA Research and Development Huidi's
> Story »

Increasingly, engineering systems are being designed and tested virtually. The
successful use of model-based simulation in modern applications requires a
solid background in engineering physics, computer science, probability, data
sciences, and applied mathematics. This Master of Engineering program provides
a strong foundation in all of these areas.

The program emphasizes the use and development of modern numerical tools for
model-based simulations such as finite element methods, uncertainty
quantification procedures, and data analysis techniques, among others.

We offer a large number of core and elective courses in finite element methods
for applications in solid mechanics, fluid mechanics, and coupled field
problems.

In the Duke Master of Engineering program, you take specialized technical
classes and a core of business leadership and management courses, with a
required internship or a project completing the degree.

## Scholarships

We offer significant support for competitive applicants—typical scholarships
range from

### $20,000-$30,000

**Degree requirements, detailed below, include:**

  * 30 course credits
  * 1 Seminar
  * Required Internship

**Application deadlines:**

  * For fall entry, visit the Duke Engineering MEng website

how To Apply

## Who Should Consider Applying?

The MEng in Computational Mechanics and Scientific Computing is ideal for
students who want to pursue careers in:

  * Biomedical device design
  * Automotive simulations/crashworthiness
  * Noise reduction in vehicles; mobile device design and vibration analysis
  * Infrastructure design and analysis
  * Additive manufacturing
  * Industrial product design

You should consider this degree if you have an engineering background and are
interested in careers in computational modeling in engineering.

If you have a background in physics, computer science, or mathematics and are
interested in enhancing your knowledge and understanding applications in
engineering and practical modeling techniques, this degree may be for you.

## How This Program Will Prepare You for a Career

  * Engineering positions in model-based simulation and design increasingly
    require master's-level training.
  * Students who complete this program will be well-prepared to use finite
    element methods and other modern numerical tools to model problems in
    additive manufacturing, engineering mechanics, and engineering consulting.
  * Students completing the program will be well-prepared to continue on in
    PhD programs in computational science and engineering.
  * Students receive interdisciplinary training in modern computational
    methods, engineering, computer science, and applied math.

## Our Graduates Are Working At:

  * Major corporations, such as 3M
  * Hedge funds
  * Engineering consulting firms, such as Boston Consulting Group
  * Public-sector research positions, such as Sandia National Laboratory

## Learn from World Leaders in the Field

Our interdisciplinary faculty bring experience and expertise from mechanical
engineering, civil engineering and computer science, including:

#### Wilkins Aquino

Aquino has broad interests in computational mechanics, including finite
element methods, computational inverse problems, uncertainty quantification,
coupled chemo-mechanics, and computational acoustics, among others.

#### Volker Blum

Blum's research focuses on "first-principles" computational materials science:
using the fundamental laws of quantum mechanics to predict the properties of
real materials from the atomic scale on upwards.

#### John Dolbow

Dolbow's research concerns the development of computational methods for
nonlinear problems in solid mechanics.

#### Johann Guilleminot

Guilleminot’s research focuses on uncertainty quantification, computational
mechanics and materials science, as well as on topics at the interface between
these fields.

#### Guglielmo Scovazzi

Scovazzi’s research interests include finite element and advanced numerical
methods for computational fluid and solid mechanics.

#### Manolis Veveakis

Veveakis’s research interests include geomechanics, theoretical and applied
mechanics, and thermodynamics, with an emphasis in multiphysical modeling of
plasticity of solids, solid-fluid interactions, friction laws and rheology of
geomaterials.

## Program Details

The Master of Engineering in Computational Mechanics and Scientific Computing
is a 30-credit degree distributed as follows:

  * Core Industry Preparation Courses (6 credits)
  * Departmental/Disciplinary or Cross Disciplinary Requirements (12 credits)
  * Technical Electives in a Concentration Area (12 credits)
  * Internship, Project or Equivalent (0 credits)

Curriculum Overview

    

**I. Core Requirements (6 credits / 2 courses)**

  * MENG 540: Management of High Tech Industries (3 credits)
  * MENG 570: Business Fundamentals for Engineers (3 credits)

**II. Proseminar (0.0 credits / 1 course)**

  * CE 703 /ME 703: Industrial Colloquia in ComputationalMechanics and
    Scientific Computing

**III. Finite Element Methods (6 credits / 2 courses)**

  * CE 530 / ME 524: Introduction to the Finite Element Method
  * CE 630 / ME 525: Nonlinear Finite Element Method

**IV. Applied Math/Statistics ( 3 credits / 1 course from list)**

  * Math 561: Numerical Linear Algebra
  * Math 541: Applied Stochastic Processes
  * Math 551 Applied Differenential Equations and Complex Variables

**V. Computer Science ( 3 credits / 1 course from list)**

  * CS 590: Parallel Computing
  * ECE 551D: Programming, Data Structures, and Algorithms in C++

**VI. Application Areas ( 4 of any courses from three areas of concentration,
12 credits)**  
 _ **Mechanics of Materials**_

  * CEE 520: Continuum Mechanics
  * CEE 541: Structural Dynamics
  * ME 555: Computational Materials Science
  * CEE 622: Fracture Mechanics

**_Fluid Mechanics_**

  * CEE 531: Finite Element Methods for Problems in Fluid Mechanics
  * ME 572: Engineering Acoustics
  * ME 639: Computational Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer
  * CEE 690: Turbulence

**_Optimization / Data Analytics_**

  * CS-445/MATH-465: Intro to High Dimensional Data Analysis
  * CE 522 / ME 526: Numerical Optimization
  * CS-571D: Machine Learning
  * STA 502: Bayesian Inference and Decision

Other course offerings may be substituted with consent of the Director of
Masters Studies.

**VII. Internship, Project or Equivalent Requirements (0 credits)**

  * MENG 550: Internship or Applied Research Project
  * MENG 551: Internship/Project Assessment

#### **Sample Computational Mechanics and Scientific Computing Curriculum (No
Specialization)**

**Fall Year 1**

**Spring Year 1**

**Summer Year 1**

**Fall Year 2**  
  
**Core Industry Preparation Courses**

**MENG 570:** Business Fundamentals for Engineers

**MENG 540:** Leadership & Management Principles for Technology-Based
Organizations

**MENG 550:** Internship or Applied Research Project

**MENG 551:** Internship/Project Assessment  
  
**Departmental Requirements**

**CEE 530 / ME 524:** Introduction to the Finite Element Method

**CEE 630 / ME 525:** Nonlinear Finite Element Method  
  
**Departmental Requirements**

**Applied Math / Statistics course**

**Computer Science Course**  
  
**Specialization**

**Concentration Elective**

**Concentration Elective**

**Concentration Elective**  
  
**Specialization**

**Concentration Elective**  
  
**PROSEMINAR**  
  
## More Information

Admissions Profile

    

The Duke Master of Engineering (MEng) program does not require a minimum GPA
or a minimum score on the GRE or TOEFL. The program does not require work
experience. Average GRE, TOEFL and grade-point averages of recently admitted
Duke MEng applicants were*:

  * GRE Quantitative: 163-169
  * GRE Verbal: 152-161
  * UGPA: 3.4-3.7

* Mid-50% range

Scholarships and Cost of Attendance

    

**We offer significant support for competitive applicants** – typical
scholarships range from $20,000-$30,000.

For details on the cost of attendance _**before**_ scholarships, go to the
Duke Engineering MEng website.

  * Learn more about Duke CEE financial support

Financial Aid and Fellowships

    

For costs after scholarships, many students take out loans and believe there
will be an excellent return on investment when they get out into the work
force.

Limited additional financial aid is available to highly qualified candidates
through academic scholarships with an emphasis on increasing diversity within
the program.

#### Diversity Scholarships

Underrepresented minorities may receive up to 50 percent per year in tuition
scholarship through our Diversity Scholarships.

#### Externally Funded Scholarships

We also offer support to recipients of select competitively externally funded
scholarships, such as

  * National Science Foundation (NSF) Fellowships
  * Fulbright Scholar Program

#### DoD SMART Scholarship Program

**For US Citizens only –** The Science, Mathematics And Research for
Transformation (SMART) Scholarship for Service Program has been established by
the Department of Defense (DoD) to support undergraduate and graduate students
pursuing degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
disciplines. The program aims to increase the number of civilian scientists
and engineers working at DoD laboratories. Read more

#### Veteran's Benefits

Duke University offers information for veterans who are applying for VA
benefits, including the Yellow Ribbon Program.

#### Federal Loan Programs

Duke University offers the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Programs for
graduate students, including Stafford unsubsidized loans, Graduate PLUS, and
Carl Perkins loans. Each of these loans has different terms and conditions,
but they are generally deferrable until after graduation or until the student
is enrolled for less than half-time.

These federal loans are available only to United States citizens. Visit the
Duke Financial Aid website for more information and application procedures for
student loans.

#### On-Campus Work

While enrolled in the program, many students work in a variety of places, such
as campus libraries and various departments within Duke University. Teaching
assistantships are available in various departments, and some departments have
research assistantships as well.

These positions are paid an hourly rate, and most students work between 10 to
20 hours per week. Positions are generally posted and filled just a week or
two before classes begin each semester.

#### External Funding Opportunities

Browse our extensive list of potential external funding opportunities.

Career Services

    

We provide outstanding career support to our master's students.

As a Duke master's student, you can take advantage of our comprehensive and
aggressive career development and job search program. You will receive advice
from our Master's Assistant Directors of Career Services who work with the
Duke Career Center to coordinate various activities throughout the year.

Our career services include:

  * On-campus recruiting
  * Individual and group career coaching
  * Special networking events such as Career Fairs, Tech Connect, Night with
    Industry and Alumni Networking Event
  * Resume and cover letter development, interviewing tips, and social media
    advice

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Mike Bergin

Professor and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5209

__cee-dms@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

