Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Master of Science in Civil & Environmental Engineering

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate
  3. Masters

Ideal Preparation for Professional Practice or Doctoral Study

The Duke CEE Master of Science (MS) in Civil and Environmental Engineering
provides a solid foundation of rigorous training and research experience to
propel your career, focused on discovery and engineering of improved
materials, processes, phenomena and devices.

We offer significant support for competitive applicants—typical **scholarships
range from $20,000-$30,000**.

> "The Duke CEE faculty understood the vision I had for my career, believed in
> my potential and supported my goals."
>
> **Bryce Dickinson MS'08** | Structural ENgineer Bryce's Story »

Driven by the ever-expanding breadth and depth of technical knowledge required
for the engineering of complex systems, the American Society of Civil
Engineers (ASCE) believes the master’s degree to be the basic preparation for
professional practice.

We will prepare you for your career.

Your faculty advisors provide mentorship and Duke offers career
services—preparing you to seek a career in industry or enter a doctoral
program.

* * *

## Study Tracks

Our MS comprises technical coursework and a thesis or project in a chosen
discipline. Students explore cutting-edge research in these study tracks:

  * Computational Mechanics and Scientific Computing
  * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
  * Systems, Risk and Decision
  * Hydrology and Fluid Dynamics
  * Environmental Health Engineering

* * *

## How to Apply

At Duke, you become part of a close-knit community of faculty who are tackling
the tricky, messy problems that don't fit neatly inside traditional
disciplines. Our research, teaching, and hallway discussions focus on pushing
the boundaries.

  * Fall semester admission deadlines

How to Apply

## Scholarships

We offer significant support for competitive applicants—typical scholarships
range from

### $20,000-$30,000

## Program Details

Degree Requirements

    

The CEE Master of Science (MS) degree requires 30 course credits:

  * 6 credits in the department courses
  * 9 credits in study track specific CEE core courses
  * At least 9 credits from other approved graduate courses, with preference
    for engineering courses.
  * 6 research credits to support their MS thesis. The student takes an oral
    exam on the thesis.
  * Participation in the Graduate Colloquium
  * Completion of the rubric form (thesis or non-thesis)

A maximum of 12 of the total 30 credits may be earned via transfer of earlier
graduate credits under rules of The Graduate School at Duke.

Study Tracks

    

Each study track is associated with a sequence of core courses that parallel
the research interests of our faculty. The study track courses are taught
regularly.

  * Computational Mechanics and Scientific Computing
  * Engineering Environmental Geomechanics and Geophysics
  * Systems, Risk and Decision
  * Hydrology and Fluid Dynamics
  * Environmental Health Engineering

Master's Thesis

    

#### Preparation

The Master's Thesis should follow the format defined in Guide for Preparation
of Theses and Dissertations, and should include the following items:

  * An abstract with objectives and clearly stated unique contributions,
  * A survey and discussion/synthesis of pertinent literature,
  * Discussions of the completed research tasks, including theory development,
    data collection, analysis, and documentation, and
  * A set of conclusions that emphasize new theoretical, modeling, or
    experimental contributions; or novel applications of existing theories.

The quality of the Master’s Thesis should allow the material to be published
in a peer-reviewed journal. Here is some more information on the master's
thesis from Duke's graduate school website.

#### Defense

Upon the completion of the written thesis, the student must defend it orally.
The thesis Advisor must approve the thesis for the defense before its final
submission to the Faculty Committee. In a letter to the Graduate School, the
Advisor states that he/she has read the thesis and that it is complete and
ready for defense. The defense takes place no less than one week after the
student has submitted the thesis to the Graduate School and presented copies
to the Faculty Committee members. The oral presentation is public and shall be
announced by the DGS. The Faculty Committee generally examines the candidate
in a closed meeting following the open oral presentation. During the defense,
the Faculty Committee may examine the student on both the content of the
thesis and on the content of the student's previous course work.

The possible outcomes of the Master's Examination are:

  * The student passes. A majority of supporting votes are required, in
    addition to the approval of the Advisor.
  * The student passes conditionally, contingent on specific changes made in
    the Thesis. These changes must be approved by the advisor and the Faculty
    Committee, who may then pass the student.
  * The student fails. Re-examination might be permitted upon the
    recommendation of the advisor and the approval of the Director of Graduate
    Studies.

Graduate Colloquium

    

In addition to the course credits listed and discussed above, each graduate
student in the department is required to participate in the departmental
seminar called Colloquia on Mechanics and the Environment. This colloquium is
a series of about 18 seminars scheduled when classes are in session during the
eight-month academic year. The faculty of the university, visiting scientists,
and senior graduate students give the seminars.

The minimal seminar participation requirements are as follows:

  * Each degree candidate needs to register for CE 701(301) (Fall) or CE
    702(302) (Spring) and is expected to attend at least 75% of the seminars
    in a given semester. Attendance is recorded. Although no grades are
    assigned in CE 701(301)-702(302), student transcripts will show that the
    courses have been completed and thereby that the requirement has been
    satisfied. Students having scheduling conflicts should inform the Director
    of Graduate Studies.
  * Each candidate for an MS degree shall register for CE 701(301)-702(302)
    for at least one academic year. Some candidates for an MS degree with a
    thesis may be asked to present a seminar on their research. Such seminar
    does not replace the oral defense of the thesis.
  * A degree candidate does not need to be registered in CE 701(301)-702(302)
    in the semester that he or she presents a seminar.
  * The faculty encourages all graduate students to attend as many Graduate
    Colloquium seminars as possible, as exposure to novel ideas, research
    methodologies, and results from broadly or even remotely related fields is
    enriching and stimulating and helps to develop a critical sense of what
    constitutes an effective presentation.

Admissions Profile

    

The Pratt School of Engineering requires a minimum GPA of 3.2 from an
undergraduate program in order to gain admission to the Master of Science (MS)
program. A minimum TOEFL score of 90 on the Internet-based test is also
required. Average GRE scores and UGPA of recent admitted applicants were:

  * GRE Quantitative: 166
  * GRE Verbal: 155
  * UGPA: 3.5

Scholarships and Cost of Attendance

    

**We offer significant support for competitive applicants** – typical
scholarships range from $20,000-$30,000.

For details on the cost of attendance **_before_** Duke CEE scholarships, go
to The Graduate School at Duke website »

  * Learn more about Duke CEE financial support

Financial Aid and Fellowships

    

For costs after scholarships, many students take out loans and believe there
will be an excellent return on investment when they get out into the work
force.

Limited additional financial aid is available to highly qualified
candidates—with an emphasis on increasing diversity within the program.

#### Diversity Scholarships

For MS, limited financial aid is available to highly qualified candidates
through academic scholarships with an emphasis on increasing diversity within
our master's degree programs.

Underrepresented minorities may receive up to 50 percent per year in tuition
scholarship through our Diversity Scholarships. Additionally, up to $10,000
per year may be allocated for the student to gain experience in a research
setting under the direction of a principal investigator (PI).

#### Externally Funded Scholarships

For MS students, we also offer support to recipients of select competitive
externally funded scholarships, such as:

  * National Science Foundation (NSF) Fellowships
  * Fulbright Scholar Program

#### Fellowships

Some departments will occasionally provide some reduced-tuition assistance,
but most of Pratt’s masters students pay through a combination of loans and
their own money.

Also see Duke Graduate School Master Student Financial Aid web page.

#### Federal Loan Programs

Duke University offers the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Programs for
graduate students, including Stafford unsubsidized loans, Graduate PLUS, and
Carl Perkins loans. Each of these loans has different terms and conditions,
but they are generally deferrable until after graduation or until the student
is enrolled for less than half-time.

These federal loans are available only to United States citizens. Visit the
Duke Financial Aid website for more information and application procedures for
student loans.

#### On-Campus Work

While enrolled in the program, many students work in a variety of places, such
as campus libraries and various departments within Duke. Teaching
assistantships are available in various departments, and some departments have
research assistantships as well.

These positions are paid an hourly rate, and most students work between 10 to
20 hours per week. Positions are generally posted and filled just a week or
two before classes begin each semester.

Career Services

    

The MS program provides outstanding career support to Duke CEE students. Our
career services include:

  * Academic job search strategy sessions
  * Non-academic job search strategy sessions for industry and governmental
    positions
  * Resume review and critiques
  * Interview skills training for international students

Learn more our excellent career placement »

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Mike Bergin

Professor and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5209

__cee-dms@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

