Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# AI/Machine Learning

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

We have built a team of internationally recognized experts in artificial
intelligence and machine learning—in fact, Duke ECE is said to be among the
**world’s top universities inAI/ML research.** Our engineers urge computer
hardware to higher levels of performance by efficiently allocating the
computing resources that machine learning applications require, allowing us to
harness the power of data to improve **health care** , enhance **security and
automation** , and advance **computer vision**.

## Research Areas

  * Autonomous systems
  * Intelligent computing systems
  * Neuromorphic computing
  * Secure, robust and explainable machine learning
  * Federated machine learning and Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT)
  * Performance modeling
  * Data modeling
  * Interpretable predictive models
  * Computer vision
  * Biomedical imaging

## Centers

  * NSF AI Institute for Edge Computing Leveraging Next-Generation Networks
    (Athena)
  * Duke Center for Computational Evolutionary Intelligence (CEI)

## INDUSTRY COLLABORATIONS

  * Center for Alternative Sustainable and Intelligent Computing
  * Microsoft Innovation Hub
  * Samsung, Qualcomm, Microsoft, Cadence, Semiconductor Research Corporation,
    Lenovo, Samsung, Intel, Facebook, HP and many others are current or former
    partners of Duke ECE's AI/Machine Learning cluster

## University Collaborations

  * Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke (iiD)
  * Duke AI Health
  * Duke Undergraduate Machine Learning

## Good to Know

Hai Li has been named Fellow of the Association of Computing Machinery

Cynthia Rudin won a 2022 Guggenheim Fellowship

## Highlights

More ECE research news

### Duke Awarded $12M Research Grant to Use Artificial Intelligence to Detect
Autism

Duke ECE faculty member Guillermo Sapiro will collaborate with Duke faculty in
psychiatry and behavioral sciences on the grant

### Duke Professor Wins $1 Million Artificial Intelligence Prize, A ‘New
Nobel’

Cynthia Rudin becomes second recipient of AAAI Squirrel AI Award for
pioneering socially responsible AI

### Calderbank Elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences

Robert Calderbank directs the Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke

## Applications Faculty

### Lawrence Carin

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Applied statistics and machine learning

### Leslie M. Collins

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based machine learning algorithms for big data,
including developing remediation strategies for the hearing impaired and
sensor-based algorithms for the detection of hazardous buried objects

### Mary "Missy" Cummings

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Human-unmanned vehicle interaction, human-autonomous
system collaboration, human-systems engineering, public policy implications of
unmanned vehicles, and the ethical and social impact of technology.

### Jeffrey L. Krolik

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based and statistical signal processing, sensor
array processing, radar and sonar systems, pervasive distributed processing

### Xin Li

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Integrated circuits, signal processing and data analytics

### Boyla Octavie Mainsah

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Loren W. Nolte

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Bayesian approach to signal detection, classification,
estimation, tracking and decision and sensor fusion. Applications in ocean
acoustics, and in medical imaging for cancer research.

### Miroslav Pajic

Dickinson Family Associate Professor

Research Interests: Design and analysis of autonomous cyber-physical systems
(CPS), and in particular, embedded systems, AI, learning and controls, CPS
security and high-assurance autonomy, with various application domains
including robotics, automotive, and medical systems

### Jian Pei

Professor of Computer Science

### Christ D Richmond

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Cynthia D. Rudin

Earl D. McLean, Jr. Professor

### Guillermo Sapiro

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Image and video processing, computer vision, computer
graphics, computational vision, biomedical imaging, brain imaging, cryo-
tomography of viruses, computational tools in cryo-tomography, computational
tools in early diagnosis of psychiatric disorders, differential geometry and…

### Vahid Tarokh

Rhodes Family Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Foundations of AI, Foundations of Signal Processing,
Learning Representations, Transfer Learning, Meta-Learning, Physics Infused
Learning, Extreme Value Theory, Dependence Modeling, Hypothesis Testing,
Sequential Analysis.

### Lisa Wills

Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: I enjoy solving difficult problems surrounding
computations with the goal to process large volumes of data efficiently. My
research interests include computer architecture and microarchitecture,
hardware-software co-designs, accelerators, and emerging application domains
―…

## Hardware & Software Faculty

### Yiran Chen

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Emerging memory and storage technologies Embedded systems,
CPS, edge computing, and mobile applications Neuromorphic computing, deep
learning and system security Low power circuit and system

### Hai "Helen" Li

Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Neuromorphic computing systems Machine learning
acceleration and trustworthy AIEmerging memory technologies, circuit and
architecture Low power circuits and systems

### Hai "Helen" Li

Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Neuromorphic computing systems Machine learning
acceleration and trustworthy AIEmerging memory technologies, circuit and
architecture Low power circuits and systems

### Christ D Richmond

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

## Theory Faculty

### Robert Calderbank

Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

### Ingrid Daubechies

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and Electrical and
Computer Engineering

### Henry Pfister

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Information theory, communications, probabilistic
graphical models, machine learning, and deep neural networks

### Galen Reeves

Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Information theory, high-dimensional statistical
inference, statistical signal processing, compressed sensing, machine learning

### Christ D Richmond

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Vahid Tarokh

Rhodes Family Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Foundations of AI, Foundations of Signal Processing,
Learning Representations, Transfer Learning, Meta-Learning, Physics Infused
Learning, Extreme Value Theory, Dependence Modeling, Hypothesis Testing,
Sequential Analysis.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

