Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# MEMS Seminar- PEARSALL LECTURE : Boundary Layer Stability Analysis of the
BOLT Hypersonic Flight Experiments

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Mar 23

_This event has passed._

##  Wednesday, March 23, 2022 – 12:00PM to 1:00PM

## Presenter

Graham V. Candler

The Boundary Layer Transition and Turbulence (BOLT) sounding rocket flight
experiments are designed to make detailed measurements of boundary layer
transition and turbulence at hypersonic conditions. BOLT has a complex nose
geometry, highly swept leading edges and a concave surface, which challenge
the validity of conventional stability analysis methods. At the University of
Minnesota, we have been developing new approaches for predicting instability
growth and boundary layer transition for complex geometry flows. The seminar
will discuss results and progress using high-order, low-dissipation numerical
methods to perform "quiet" direct numerical simulations of the BOLT flow
field. The simulations reveal four competing instability mechanisms; these
include second-mode acoustic disturbances, a vortical mode associated with
boundary layer roll-up on the centerline, traveling crossflow due to boundary
layer distortion near the leading edge, and a multi-mode instability near the
trailing edge. It is shown that breakdown to turbulence occurs due to
interactions between the crossflow and acoustic modes. The prospects for
extending the simulation approach to include the effects of free-stream
turbulence and particulates will also be discussed.  
  
Bio:  
Graham Candler is the Russell J. Penrose and McKnight Presidential Endowed
Chair of Aerospace Engineering and Mechanics at the University of Minnesota.
He uses computational methods to study high-speed flight with application to
future hypersonic flight systems and the entry of spacecraft into planetary
atmospheres. Candler and his research collaborators have developed widely-used
computational methods and codes that are being used for the design and
analysis of future hypersonic flight systems, including several NASA
exploration missions. Recently, his work has focused on the development of
high-accuracy simulation methods for the exploration of hypersonic flight
system design space. He has published extensively in the areas of
computational methods, high-temperature gas dynamics, boundary layer laminar
to turbulent transition, and validation of computational simulations with
hypersonic wind tunnel data. He is a Fellow of the AIAA and a member of the
National Academy of Engineering. Candler received his undergraduate degree
from McGill University and his graduate degrees in Aeronautics and
Astronautics from Stanford University.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

