Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Pearsall Distinguished Lecture: Soft Meta-Materials: Self-Gauged Assembly,
Non-Equilibrium Matters, and 3D Super-Resolution Imaging

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Nov 13

_This event has passed._

##  Monday, November 13, 2017 – 12:00PM to 1:00PM

## Presenter

Professor Xiang Zhang, Ph.D.

Abstract

Metamaterials are artificial composite structures that lead to many exciting
applications beyond nature such as imaging objects below the diffraction
limit, optical clocking, sensing and communications. Traditional metamaterials
are considered as “hard” materials that structural units cannot be tailored
after their formation which limits their material responses and applications.
It remains a critical and unsolved problem to design “soft metamaterials” that
can spontaneously self-adapt to changes in the source wavelength or the
environment.

We explore “soft metamaterials” with building blocks that have a strong
propensity for self-assembly/re-assembly. In this regards, the structure units
can be artificially evolving during the formation of soft metamaterials.
Particularly, we explore the self-feedback mechanism between structures and
properties for self-selective assembly of complex metamaterial
nanoarchitectures with tailored symmetries. We expand structural design using
soft metamaterial approach to achieve isotropic negative index metamaterials
and Brownian optical imaging. We also explore approach for realizing bandgap
materials that reside far from equilibrium and emerge enslaved to an external
drive. Experimental results are providing supports as well as new insights
into such new type of soft metamaterials that facilitate self-responsive
material applications.

Bio

Xiang Zhang is the inaugural Ernest S. Kuh Endowed Chaired Professor at UC
Berkeley and the Director of Nano-scale Science and Engineering Center (NSEC).
He also served as the Director of Materials Science Division at Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL).

Professor Zhang is an elected member of US National Academy of Engineering
(NAE), Academia Sinica (Taiwan, Republic of China), foreign member of Chinese
Academy of Sciences, and Fellow of four scientific societies: APS (The
American Physical Society), OSA (The Optical Society of America), AAAS (The
American Association for the Advancement of Science), and SPIE (The
International Society of Optical Engineering).

Professor Zhang received Ph.D from UC Berkeley (1996) and MS from University
of Minnesota and MS/BS from Nanjing University, PR China. He was an assistant
professor at Pennsylvania State University (1996-1999), and associate
professor and full professor at UCLA (1999-2004) prior joined Berkeley faculty
in 2004.

Professor Zhang’s current research focused on materials physics, metamaterials
and nano photonics. He has published over 300 journal papers including over 80
publications in _Science,_ _Nature series, PNAS and Physical Review Letters_.
He has given 320 Keynote, Plenary and Invited talks at international
conferences and institutions. He served as a Co-Chair of NSF Nanoscale Science
and Engineering Annual Grantee Conferences in 2004 and 2005, and past Chair of
Academic Advisory Board for Research Center for Applied Science (RCAS),
Academia Sinica, Taiwan, ROC.

In 2008, Professor Zhang’s research has been selected by _Time Magazine_ as
one of “ _Top Ten Scientific Discoveries of the Year_ ” and “ _50 Best
Inventions of the Year”_ , _Discover Magazine_ ’s “ _Top 100 Science Stories_
” in 2007, and _R &D Magazine_’s _top 25 the Most Innovative Products of
2006_. His research was frequently featured by international media including
_BBC_ , _CNN, ABC, New York Times, and Wall Street Journal._

Professor Zhang is a recipient of NSF _CAREER Award_ (1997); SME _Dell K.
Allen Outstanding Young Engineer Award_ (1998) and _ONR Young Investigator
Award_ (1999). He was awarded _Chancellor’s Professorship_ by UC Berkeley
(2004-2009), _Distinguished Lecturer_ by University of Texas at Austin in 2004
and SEMETECH in 2005, respectively, _Rohsenow Lecturer_ at MIT (2009) and
_William Reynolds Lecturer_ at Stanford (2012). In 2011, he was awarded Fred
Kavli Distinguished Lectureship by Materials Research Society (MRS), Miller
Professorship by UC Berkeley, and Distinguished Visiting Scientist (DVS) by
the University of Toronto. He was awarded Fitzroy Medal in 2014 for pioneering
contributions in metamaterials and superlens, Charles Russ Richards Memorial
Award in 2015, Max Born Award from Optical Society of America in 2016, the
Julius Springer Prize for Applied Physics in 2016, Distinguished Chinese
American Scientist Award in 2016, and A. C. Eringen Medal from Society of
Engineering Science in 2017.

Reception immediately following lecture.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

