Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Pearsall Distinguished Lecture: Mechanics of Soft Composites - The Interplay
Between Geometrical Structuring and Large Deformation to Achieve Novel
Behavior, Dean Mary Boyce

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Mar 29

_This event has passed._

##  Tuesday, March 29, 2016 – 3:30PM to 5:00PM

## Presenter

Dean Mary C. Boyce - The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied
Science, Columbia University

**Mary C. Boyce** (NAE) is Dean of The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and
Applied Science at Columbia University in the City of New York and the Morris
A. and Alma Schapiro Professor of Engineering. Prior to joining Columbia, she
served on the faculty of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) for
over 25 years, leading the Mechanical Engineering Department from 2008 to
2013. She has mentored more than 40 M.S. thesis students and 25 Ph.D.
students. Widely recognized for her scholarly contributions to the field, she
has been elected a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the National Academy of
Engineering. She leads the education and research mission of Columbia
Engineering with more than 185 faculty, 1500 undergraduate students, 3100
graduate students, and 100 postdoctoral fellows. She is committed to
facilitating and celebrating the creativity and innovation of students and
faculty. She has launched a Columbia MakerSpace, created Ignition Grants to
support student physical and digital ventures, initiated Columbia Design
Challenges, including Confronting the Ebola Crisis and Urban Water, and
established the SEAS Senior Design Expo. She also has inaugurated SEAS
participation in the Columbia Startup Lab, and expanded entrepreneurship
programming and the Columbia Venture Competition in close partnership with the
University’s Columbia Entrepreneurship Initiative. She is a strong advocate
for enabling interdisciplinary research collaborations across the School and
the University, including extensively transforming research spaces and
expanding the faculty body in cross-cutting fields as wide ranging as Data
Science, Nano Science, Sensing and Imaging, Sustainability, and Engineering in
Medicine. A dedicated engineering educator, she has been honored for her
teaching at MIT, where she was named a MacVicar Faculty Fellow and received
the Joseph Henry Keenan Innovation in Undergraduate Education Award. Dean
Boyce earned her BS degree in engineering science and mechanics from Virginia
Tech, and her MS and PhD degrees in mechanical engineering from MIT.

## Abstract

Soft composites offer new avenues for the design and fabrication of materials
and devices that exhibit novel properties and functional behavior. Engineering
the interplay between the geometrical structuring of constituent materials and
the large deformation behavior of the soft matrix enables structural
transformations and tunable properties. Here we explore the mechanics and the
design of soft composites through analytical and numerical modeling as well as
through experiments on physical prototypes fabricated using multi-material 3D
printing. Examples include: layered structures which exhibit deformation-
induced transformation of the layered pattern leading to concomitant changes
in other attributes to manipulate wave propagation and phononic band gaps;
materials with alternating soft/stiff layered structures which provide
protective yet flexible armor while also providing a novel material design for
soft actuators which transform local compressive loading to large scale
rotational motion; and soft matrices augmented by stiff particles which
provide deformation-induced morphing surface topologies with engineered
surface topologies with the potential to influence a wide range in surface
behavior.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

