Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Pearsall Distinguished Lecture: Computationally Aided Materials Discovery
and Design

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Apr 13

_This event has passed._

##  Monday, April 13, 2015 – 3:00PM to 7:00PM

## Presenter

Prof. Mark Asta - Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University
of California, Berkeley

**Mark Asta** received his PhD from the University of California, Berkeley, in
1993. He then joined Sandia National Laboratories as a postdoctoral
researcher, and was promoted to senior member of technical staff in 1995. He
joined the faculty of the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at
Northwestern University, as an Associate Professor in 2000, receiving tenure
in 2003. In 2005 he joined UC Davis, as a full Professor in Chemical
Engineering and Materials Science, where he also served as vice-chair from
2008-2009. In 2010 he joined the faculty of the Department of Materials
Science and Engineering at UC Berkeley, and the Lawrence Berkeley National
Lab, as a faculty scientist. In 2012 he was appointed Department Chair of
Materials Science and Engineering at UC Berkeley. Professor Asta’s research
focuses on the development and application of atomistic and first-principles
methods for computational simulations of the thermodynamic and kinetic
properties of multiphase bulk materials, surfaces and interfaces. These
methods are applied in the modeling of nano and meso-scale structure
development in crystal growth from the melt and vapor, and as an integral
component in computationally-guided design of materials for energy-related
applications. Professor Asta has co-authored over 200 manuscripts, and he has
co-organized over 20 international workshops and symposia in the area of
computational materials science. He is currently on the editorial board for
the journal _CALPHAD_ and is a key reader for _Metallurgical and Materials
Transactions_.Professor Asta was awarded ASM International's Materials
Research Silver Medal Award, which recognizes mid-career materials scientists
whose individual and collaborative work has “had a major impact on the science
of materials.” In 2010 he was awarded as a Fellow of the American Physical
Society, and in 2013 he received the TMS Electronic, Magnetic and Photonic
Materials Division Distinguished Scientist/Engineer Award.

#### Abstract

The discovery and design of new materials has often been a critical enabler in
the development of new technologies. Whether considering semiconductor
compounds for microelectronics, new electrode materials high-voltage
batteries, or high-temperature alloys for energy conversion, the design and
development of new materials continues to be central to enabling technological
innovation. This talk will provide an overview of efforts aimed at using the
modern framework of computational materials science to guide materials
discovery and accelerate materials design. An overview will be given of the
use of first-principles calculations, performed in a high-throughput mode, to
develop databases for use in screening materials and for training data-
analysis algorithms to guide discovery of new materials with targeted
applications. In addition, the use of computational methods as the foundation
for hierarchical multiscale modeling in the arena of materials design and
development will be discussed. To highlight the main concepts, examples will
be described in the context of materials for energy conversion and for
advanced structural applications.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

