Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Pearsall Distinguished Lecture: Logarithmic Scaling in Wall-Bounded
Turbulent Flows

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Apr 11

_This event has passed._

##  Friday, April 11, 2014 – 11:30AM to 1:00PM

## Presenter

Prof. Alexander Smits, Princeton

**Alexander J. Smits** is the Eugene Higgins Professor of Mechanical and
Aerospace Engineering at Princeton, as well as a Professorial Fellow at Monash
University in Australia. His research interests are centered on fundamental,
experimental research in turbulence and fluid mechanics. In 2004, Dr. Smits
received the Fluid Dynamics Award of the AIAA. In 2007, Dr. Smits received the
Fluids Engineering Award from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers
(ASME), the Pendray Aerospace Literature Award from the American Institute of
Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), and the President's Award for
Distinguished Teaching from Princeton University. He is a Fellow of the
American Physical Society, the American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American
Academy for the Advancement of Science, the Australasian Fluid Mechanics
Society, and he is a Member of the National Academy of Engineering.

#### Abstract

Logarithmic scaling is one of the corner stones of our understanding of wall-
bounded turbulent flows. In 1938, Clark B. Millikan advanced an overlap
argument that framed the logarithmic variation of the mean velocity in simple
dimensional terms. Seventy-five years later, however, basic aspects of this
logarithmic region, such as its slope (described by von Karman’s constant),
and its spatial extent, are still being debated. In addition, Townsend in 1976
proposed a logarithmic scaling for the streamwise and spanwise components of
turbulence based on the attached eddy hypothesis, but to date the experimental
verification has been elusive. Here, we use pipe flow measurements over a very
large Reynolds number range to examine these expectations of logarithmic
scaling, and show that pipe flows at sufficiently high Reynolds number reveal
both expected and unexpected implications for our understanding and our
capacity to model turbulence.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

