Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Pearsall Distinguished Lecture: Nanoengineering for Efficient Heat Transfer
and Energy Conversion Materials and Systems

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Mar 22

_This event has passed._

##  Friday, March 22, 2013 – 11:30AM to 1:30PM

## Presenter

Prof. Gang Chen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

**Dr. Gang Chen** is currently the Carl Richard Soderberg Professor of Power
Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He obtained his Ph.D.
degree from UC Berkeley in 1993 working under then Chancellor Chang-Lin Tien.
He was a faculty member at Duke University (1993-1997), University of
California at Los Angeles (1997-2001), before joining MIT in 2001. He is a
recipient of the NSF Young Investigator Award, the ASME Heat Transfer Memorial
Award, the R&D100 Award, and the MIT McDonald Award for Excellence in
Mentoring and Advising. He is a member of the US National Academy of
Engineering, a Guggenheim Fellow, an AAAS Fellow, an APS Fellow, and an ASME
Fellow. He has published extensively in the area of nanoscale energy transport
and conversion and nanoscale heat transfer. He is the director of Solid-State
Solar-Thermal Energy Conversion Center funded by the US DOE’s Energy Frontier
Research Centers program.

#### Abstract

Understanding the transport of heat carriers at microscopic level leads to new
ways to design better materials for thermal energy conversion and utilization.
This talk will cover a few examples of extraordinary microscopic pictures of
heat transport and show how to apply the new understanding to improve
macroscale heat transfer and energy conversion materials and devices. After a
brief introduction on the connection between nano and energy, the talk will
demonstrates via both experiments and simulations that phonon mean free path
in solids spans several orders of magnitude. This understanding is applied to
engineer more efficient thermoelectric energy conversion materials and
devices. In an opposite direction, the talk will discuss how to turn polymers
from poor thermal conductors to highly thermally conductive materials. The
talk will conclude by discussing theory and experimental results that show
thermal radiation heat transfer at nanoscale can exceed the blackbody
radiation by several orders of magnitude and the convergence of thermal
radiation and heat conduction at nanoscale. Applications of these
extraordinary heat transfer phenomena for energy applications will be
discussed along the talk.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

