Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# MEMS PEARSALL LECTURE:3D Mesostructures and Their Applications in Unusual
MEMS Technologies

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Jan 18

_This event has passed._

##  Wednesday, January 18, 2023 – 12:00PM to 1:00PM

## Presenter

John A. Rogers

Complex, three-dimensional (3D) micro/nanostructures in biology provide
sophisticated, essential functions in even the most basic forms of life.
Compelling opportunities exist for analogous 3D structures in man-made
devices, but existing design options are highly constrained by comparatively
primitive capabilities in fabrication and growth. Recent advances in
mechanical engineering and materials science provide broad access to diverse,
highly engineered classes of 3D architectures, with characteristic dimensions
that range from nanometers to centimeters and areas that span square
centimeters or more. The approach relies on geometric transformation of
preformed two-dimensional (2D) precursor micro/nanostructures and/or devices
into extended 3D layouts by controlled processes of substrate-induced
compressive buckling, where the bonding configurations, thickness
distributions and other parameters control the final configurations. This talk
reviews the key concepts and focuses on the most recent developments with
example applications in areas ranging from mesoscale microfluidic/electronic
networks as advanced neural interfaces to bio-inspired microfliers as
environmental sensing platforms.  
  
Professor John A. Rogers obtained BA and BS degrees in chemistry and in
physics from the University of Texas, Austin, in 1989. From MIT, he received
SM degrees in physics and in chemistry in 1992 and the PhD degree in physical
chemistry in 1995. From 1995 to 1997, Rogers was a Junior Fellow in the
Harvard University Society of Fellows. He joined Bell Laboratories as a Member
of Technical Staff and then served as Director of the Condensed Matter Physics
Research Department from 1997 to 2002. He then spent thirteen years on the
faculty at University of Illinois, most recently as the Swanlund Chair
Professor and Director of the Seitz Materials Research Laboratory. In the Fall
of 2016, he moved to Northwestern University where he is Director of the
recently endowed Querrey-Simpson Institute for Bioelectronics. He has co-
authored nearly 900 papers and his a co-inventor on more than 100 patents. His
research has been recognized by many awards, including a MacArthur Fellowship
(2009), the Lemelson-MIT Prize (2011), the Smithsonian Award for American
Ingenuity in the Physical Sciences (2013), the Benjamin Franklin Medal from
the Franklin Institute (2019), and a Guggenheim Fellowship (2021). He is a
member of the National Academy of Engineering, the National Academy

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

