Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# [CANCELLED]CANCELED: MEMS SEMINAR: Piezoelectric Films for
Microelectromechanical Systems

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Mar 15

_This event has passed._

##  Wednesday, March 15, 2023 – 12:00PM to 1:00PM

## Presenter

Susan Trolier-Mckinstry ( Penn State)

Abstract: Piezoelectric thin films are of increasing interest in low voltage
microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) for sensing, actuation, and energy
harvesting. This seminar will discuss how materials are optimized for these
applications, as well as examples of the use of piezoelectric films over a
wide range of length scales. The key figures of merit for actuators and energy
harvesting will be discussed, with emphasis on how to achieve these on
practical substrates. For example, control of the domain structure of the
ferroelectric material allows the energy harvesting figure of merit for the
piezoelectric layer to be increased by factors of 4 - 10. Likewise, control of
crystallographic orientation and substrate clamping enables large increases in
the figure of merit for actuators. To illustrate the functionality of these
films, examples of integration into MEMS structures will also be discussed,
including miniaturized ultrasound systems for imaging and particle
manipulation, low frequency and non-resonant piezoelectric energy harvesting
devices, and piezoelectronic transistors as a potential replacement for CMOS
electronics.  
  
Susan Trolier-McKinstry is an Evan Pugh University Professor and Steward S.
Flaschen Professor of Ceramic Science and Engineering, and Professor of
Electrical Engineering. Her main research interests include thin films for
dielectric and piezoelectric applications. She directs both the Center for
Dielectrics and Piezoelectrics and the Center for Three-Dimensional
Ferroelectric Microelectronics. She is a member of the National Academy of
Engineering, a fellow of the American Ceramic Society, IEEE, and the Materials
Research Society, and an academician of the World Academy of Ceramics. She
currently serves as an associate editor for Applied Physics Letters. She was
2017 President of the Materials Research Society; previously she served as
president of the IEEE Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics and Frequency Control
Society, as well as Keramos.  
  
Host: Tony Jun Huang

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

