Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# MEMS SEMINAR: Soft Robotics using Shape Memory Materials for Wearable
Technology Applications

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Mar 29

_This event has passed._

##  Wednesday, March 29, 2023 – 12:00PM to 1:00PM

## Presenter

Bradley Holschuh ( University of Minnesota)

ABSTRACT: Dr. Holschuh will discuss recent advancements, opportunities, and  
challenges associated with wearable soft robotic systems. In particular, he
will  
focus on the use of shape memory materials as soft robotic actuators for on-
body  
robotic applications, and discuss actuator strategies, garment integration  
architectures, and potential use cases, featuring ongoing work in the UMN  
Wearable Technology Laboratory (WTL).  
  
DR. BRADLEY HOLSCHUH is an Associate Professor of Apparel Design at the
University of Minnesota, where he serves as Co-Director of the Wearable
Technology Laboratory (WTL) and Director of Graduate Studies for the Human
Factors and Ergonomics (HFE) graduate program. He earned his BS ('07), dual MS
('10), and PhD ('14) degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
where as a NASA Space Technology Research Fellow (NSTRF) in the Man-Vehicle
Laboratory (MVL) he researched advanced materials for next generation space
suits. At UMN, Dr. Holschuh's research focuses on the use of wearable
technology to improve human performance both in space and on Earth, with a
specific focus on integrating active materials technology into wearable
systems. His work encompasses wearable technology, soft robotics, human
factors design, textile engineering, aerospace engineering / bioastronautics,
and materials science. He holds the additional title of UMN Distinguished
University Teaching Professor and is a member of the UMN Academy of
Distinguished Teachers.  
  
Host: Dan Buckland

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

