Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# MEMS SEMINAR: Plenty of Room at the Top: From Molecular to Macroscopic
Chemical Patterning of Hard and Soft Materials

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Apr 5

_This event has passed._

##  Wednesday, April 5, 2023 – 12:00PM to 1:00PM

## Presenter

Shelley Claridge ( Purdue University)

Abstract: Many problems in modern materials chemistry require highly
structured chemical environments at near-molecular scales, integrated into
larger micro-to-macroscopic constructs - ranging from nanoelectronics to
ligand clustering in biology. However, approaches that are successful at
achieving molecular-scale control are often difficult to extend across length
scales, or into challenging chemically heterogeneous environments required for
real function. Here, we describe a surprisingly robust and scalable route to
achieve nm-to-macroscopic chemical patterning of materials based on
amphiphilic striped phases, which can be assembled on graphite, graphene,
MoS2, and other 2D materials. Recently, we have also demonstrated that these
patterns can be assembled on hard, crystalline 2D materials, then transferred
to soft, amorphous materials including PDMS and hydrogels. The transferred
surface layer of fully extended, relatively rigid polydiacetylenes with
functional headgroups confers both chemical and mechanical function, creating
new opportunities for nanostructured material design in biology and wearable
electronics. We will discuss the relationship between structure, assembly, and
reactivity in the molecular template layer, as well as applications of the
templates in directing the assembly of high-aspect-ratio inorganic
nanocrystals and in designed cell scaffolds for regenerative medicine.  
  
Shelley Claridge received undergraduate degrees in mathematics and
biochemistry from Texas A&M University, and subsequently worked as a software
engineer for six years prior to completing a Ph.D. at UC Berkeley with Paul
Alivisatos and Jean Fréchet. After a postdoctoral fellowship with Paul Weiss
at UCLA, she joined the faculty at Purdue University in 2013, and was promoted
to Associate Professor with tenure in 2019. Her research at Purdue has been
recognized with Young Investigator awards from NSF, DARPA (2017 Young Faculty
Award and 2019 DARPA Director's Fellowship),NIH (Trailblazer), 3M, and DuPont
(one of 8 globally in 2016), and most recently the Schmidt Science Polymaths
Award (one of 10 globally across STEM fields). Work from her group has also
been the subject of 7 granted patents and 6 additional pending patent
applications to date.  
  
Host: Christine Payne

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

