Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# MEMS SEMINAR: The Future of Governing Equations

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Apr 12

_This event has passed._

##  Wednesday, April 12, 2023 – 12:00PM to 1:00PM

## Presenter

Nathan Kutz

Abstract:  
A major challenge in the study of dynamical systems is that of model
discovery: turning data into reduced order models that are not just
predictive, but provide insight into the nature of the underlying dynamical
system that generated the data. We introduce a number of data-driven
strategies for discovering nonlinear multiscale dynamical systems and their
embeddings from data. We consider two canonical cases: (i) systems for which
we have full measurements of the governing variables, and (ii) systems for
which we have incomplete measurements. For systems with full state
measurements, we show that the recent sparse identification of nonlinear
dynamical systems (SINDy) method can discover governing equations with
relatively little data and introduce a sampling method that allows SINDy to
scale efficiently to problems with multiple time scales, noise and parametric
dependencies. For systems with incomplete observations, we show that the
Hankel alternative view of Koopman (HAVOK) method, based on time-delay
embedding coordinates and the dynamic mode decomposition, can be used to
obtain a linear models and Koopman invariant measurement systems that nearly
perfectly captures the dynamics of nonlinear quasiperiodic systems. Neural
networks are used in targeted ways to aid in the model reduction process.
Together, these approaches provide a suite of mathematical strategies for
reducing the data required to discover and model nonlinear multiscale systems.  
Nathan Kutz is the Yasuko Endo and Robert Bolles Professor of Applied
Mathematics and Electrical and Computer Engineering and Director of the AI
Institute in Dynamic Systems at the University of Washington, having served as
chair of applied mathematics from 2007-2015. He received the BS degree in
physics and mathematics from the University of Washington in 1990 and the Phd
in applied mathematics from Northwestern University in 1994. He was a postdoc
in the applied and computational mathematics program at Princeton University
before taking his faculty position. He has a wide range of interests,
including neuroscience to fluid dynamics where he integrates machine learning
with dynamical systems and control.  
  
Host: Dr. Boyuan Chen

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

