Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Understanding Structured Fluids: An Integrated Approach for Novel Energy and
Environmental Solutions

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Mar 15

_This event has passed._

##  Wednesday, March 15, 2023 – 9:00AM to 10:00AM

## Presenter

Michela Geri

Many industrial processes are governed by the flow and deformation of
multiphase materials in which solid particles are dispersed or co-exists with
a fluid phase, and therefore are referred to as structured fluids. Examples
can be found in many industries, including food, cosmetics and pharmaceutical,
but most importantly they are critical for the production and transport of
energy materials. Examples include suspensions of energy carriers, printable
slurries for coatings and batteries, and slurries for mining of minerals and
metals. Many natural materials involved in environmental events also belong to
the category of structured fluids: soil, mud and snow are just a few examples.
Structured fluids often display a complex mechanical behavior that is
characterized by features common to both fluids and solids, with material
properties that can change over time due to thermodynamic, chemical or
kinematic conditions. Our limited understanding of the behavior of structured
fluids can lead to critical industrial challenges and prove environmentally
disastrous, as in the case of clogged subsea pipelines or in landslides and
avalanches. Such problems call for immediate solutions to measure and model
the mechanical behavior of structured fluids, towards an improved
understanding of this vast class of materials and corresponding processes and
products.  
  
My research demonstrates that these challenges can be overcome by: (i)
introducing novel experimental tools and protocols that allow us to study the
mechanical and rheological response of structured fluids even when their
behavior is rapidly changing, or mutating, in time; and (ii) rigorously
setting theoretical frameworks that explain the experimental observations. In
this talk, I will introduce an example of the integrated experimental and
theoretical framework that can successfully capture the complex mechanical
response of structured fluids. As I will demonstrate in my talk, this powerful
approach not only improves our understanding, but also provides guidelines to
develop superior materials for critical energy and environmental challenges.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

