Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Next-generation Solar Energy Conversion with Functional Hybrid Materials

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Mar 22

_This event has passed._

##  Wednesday, March 22, 2023 – 9:00AM to 10:00AM

## Presenter

Mingyang Wei

As the most abundant renewable energy source, solar energy is a crucial
component of decarbonizing the global energy sector. However, the widespread
adoption of solar energy could intensify land competition among activities,
leading to potential environmental impacts, such as biodiversity loss. This
land use challenge is due in part to the inherent limitations of market-
dominating silicon photovoltaics, which have limited flexibility and low
theoretical efficiency (~29%).  
Hybrid materials, such as metal-halide perovskites, offer promising solutions
for advancing photovoltaics by combining desirable optical, electronic, and
structural properties beyond those of silicon. In this talk, I will first
detail my work on the design of perovskite heterostructures to advance next-
generation photovoltaics in two emerging directions: luminescent solar
concentrators (LSCs) for land-saving integrated photovoltaics, and high-
efficiency tandem photovoltaics. For LSCs, I introduce the concept of
narrowband exciton routing using phase-tuned self-assembled quantum wells,
which allows for low-loss perovskite-based LSCs with high internal quantum
efficiency and large dimensions. For tandem solar cells, I develop mixed-
dimensional heterojunctions to reduce the oxidation of tin-lead perovskite
bottom cells, ultimately leading to over 26%-efficiency all-perovskite tandem
solar cells - exceeding the efficiency of single-junction perovskites for the
first time.  
I will then describe the commercialization prospects of next-generation
photovoltaic technologies. My recent research has shown that interface
engineering can enhance the performance of perovskite solar cells, but at the
expense of high-temperature operating stability. Through the design of
molecular passivators, I have demonstrated commercial-viable operating-stable
single-junction perovskites. However, the commercialization of high-efficiency
tandem/triple-junction technologies require more innovative solutions for
stability breakthroughs. Furthermore, sustainability challenges must be
addressed to ensure the large-scale deployment of these technologies. This
includes replacing toxic solvents, minimizing lead leakage and end-life
recycling strategies.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

