

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# COVID-19 Engineering Response Team

In 2020, this team worked on projects to address Duke Health’s identified
clinical equipment needs. Below are descriptions of projects completed by the
team. Many include design information. This effort was coordinated by Duke
EngEn, the Innovation Co-Lab and Duke MEDx.  
  

Contact us »

* * *

## Projects Completed

### Isolation Tent (COVIAGE)

An isolation chamber to be used around a patient's bed (or stretcher) designed
for COVID-19 positive patients and patients with other infectious pathogens

Inquire

_Via Duke's Office of Licensing & Ventures (OLV)_

#### Needs Met

  * Increase usage of non-invasive ventilation by COVID-19 patients

  * Minimize health care-worker exposure to respiratory droplets from COVID-19
    patients

#### Project Summary

  * The team has designed a tent-like structure with an aluminum frame, full
    zipper opening, sleeve/glove and double-door compartments, and an HVAC
    system with negative pressure and HEPA filtration rate using nonmedical
    filters
  * Final particle/filter testing performed with partner Precision Air
    Technologies—and passed
  * Emergency Use Authorization obtained from the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA)

#### Team

Lead: Konstantinos Economopoulos (Surgery/BME)

Members:

  * School of Nursing Faculty: Jackie Vaughn, Ryan Shaw
  * MEMS Faculty: W. Neal Simmons
  * BME Faculty: Paul Fearis, Eric Richardson
  * Engineering Students: Ben Wesorick, Theresa Thompson, Kanishka Patel,
    Shikha Sharma, Yaas Bigdeli, Max Sondland, Dimitrios Bailas

#### Project Partners

  * Polyzen
  * Precision Air Technology

#### Media

**News articles:**

  * Engineering Student Works with Team Designing Isolation Chamber for
    COVID-19 Patients

**Video:**

**Images:**

### Surgical Hood (3D SHIELD)

Adapts an ambient-air personal protection system into a sealed PAPR

Request Design Download

_Via Duke's Office of Licensing & Ventures (OLV)_

#### Needs Met

  * Shortage of powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR) systems, which provide
    greater protection than an N95 respirator and face shield

#### Project Summary

The design seals the permeable part of a commercial surgical hood with
transparent film and seals the fan on top of the helmet with a 3D-printed
manifold so that air can be pulled through two in-line ventilator filters.
This creates positive pressure inside the hood with filtered, not ambient,
air.

Over 80 institutions requested design files and nearly 30 licensing agreements
were completed.

#### Team

  * Lead: Melissa Erickson (Surgery, Fuqua WEMBA)
  * Members: Eric Richardson (BME), Paul Fearis (BME), Chip Bobbert (OIT),
    Mark Palmeri (BME)

#### Project Partner

  * Precision Air Technology

#### Media

  * Duke Today: 3D Printing to Give Medical Teams the Highest Level of
    Protection »
  * Journal of Arthroplasty: Helmet Modification to PPE with 3D Printing
    During the COVID-19 Pandemic at Duke University Medical Center: A Novel
    Technique

### Reusable Face Shield

A robust injection-molded headband attached to a thermo-formed shield

#### Design Note

_The design is a derivative of thePrusa RC3._

_Note: The design at this link is_ not _a Duke design._ _ **  
**_

#### Need

Supplemental supply of reusable face shields.

#### Summary

  * 30,000 units manufactured; goal to produce 75,000 units
  * Assembly is being completed by a team of more than 20 volunteers
  * More than 100 downloads of license request; nearly 50 license agreements
    signed

#### Team

  * Lead: Chip Bobbert (Office of Information Technology-OIT)
  * Members: Evan Levine (OIT), Paul Fearis (BME), Mark Palmieri (BME) and
    Ryan J. Shaw (School of Nursing)

#### Project Partners

  * Beechwood Metal Works
  * Nike
  * Protolabs

#### Media

  * Duke Today: Solving Pressing Challenges: 3D Printing of Medical Grade Face
    Shields »

### Aerosolization Sampler Clip

#### Status: Clinical implementation

#### Need

A team investigating aerosolized virus in COVID 19 patient rooms requested
design assistance for a clip for an aerosol sampling device.

#### Summary

  * Design completed
  * First part has been produced
  * Approvals received
  * Clinical implementation

#### Team

  * Lead: Chip Bobbert (OIT)
  * Members: Lucas Rocha-Melogno (CEE)

#### Media

### PAPR Bridge

#### Needs

  * Shortage of powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR) systems, which provide
    greater protection than an N95 respirator and face shield
  * Duke and the Durham VA hospitals have supplies of older PAPR hoods which
    cannot be used because they do not connect to the PAPR pumps now in use

#### Project Summary

  * The team has developed two 3D-printed adaptors, which have undergone
    testing
  * The adaptors will allow two different pumps to be connected to three
    different PAPR hoods
  * Final designs completed and delivered to Durham VA Hospital

#### Team

  * Lead: Alejandro Pino (Pulmonology)
  * Members: Eric Richardson (BME), Chip Bobbert (OIT), Paul Fearis (BME),
    Neal Simmons (MEMS)

#### Illustration

### Device For Personalizing Ventilation Settings on a Shared System

Inquire

_Via Duke's Office of Licensing & Ventures (OLV)_

#### Need

A method to allow one ventilator to support two patients, even if two COVID-19
patients have different pulmonary compliances—to be used only in emergencies
when other options have been exhausted.

#### Project Summary

  * The team has developed an easy-to-use ventilator output splitter that can
    be combined with novel airflow resistors
  * The splitter and flow resistors are 3D printed from biocompatible
    materials
  * Decision-support mobile app developed with CrossComm Inc.
  * Request for Emergency Use Authorization has been submitted to the U.S.
    Food & Drug Administration (FDA)

#### Team

Lead: Muath Bishawi (Surgery/BME)

Members: Ken Gall (EngEn); George Truskey and Amanda Randles (BME); David
MacLeod, Anne Cherry, Jhaymie Cappiello (Anesthesiology); Amy Alger (Surgery)

#### Project Partners

  * CrossComm—founded by a Duke Computer Science graduate
  * Restor3d—a Duke Engineering faculty startup
  * LEGEND Technical Services Inc.

#### Media

## Projects Developed

### Intubation Aerosol Shield

#### Status: Project on Hold

#### Need

During intubation procedures, health care providers need shielding from
respiratory droplets from COVID-19 patients.

#### Project Summary

  * Testing a design from outside of Duke
  * Feedback communicated to the manufacturer
  * Duke clinicians viewed existing solutions as adequate—project on hold

#### Team

  * Leads: Muath Bishawi (Surgery/BME), Kostantinos Economopoulos
    (Surgery/BME)
  * Members: Chip Bobbert (OIT), David MacLeod (Anesthesiology), John Whittle
    (Anesthesiology)

### Nasal Swabs

#### Status: On hold

#### Need

A supplemental supply of nasal swabs for the diagnosis of COVID-19.

#### Summary

  * Team is investigating the 3D-printed nasal swab developed by USF Health,
    Northwell Health and Formlabs
  * Clinical feedback received
  * Manufacturer identified

#### Team

  * Lead: Chip Bobbert (OIT)
  * Members: Eric Richardson (BME), Donna Crenshaw (MEDx), Cameron Wolfe
    (Infectious Diseases), Nancy Henshaw (Pathology)

#### Project Partner

  * Yukon Medical

### Oxygen Mask

#### Status: In Testing

#### Need

Safely deliver high-flow oxygen to COVID-19 patients without creating
contagious aerosols.

#### Summary

  * Assessing a snorkel mask provided by a third-party company
  * Testing completed at the Duke Center for Hyperbaric Medicine and
    Environmental Physiology
  * Working with partner to 3D-print and test snorkel mask design

#### Team

  * Lead: Alejandro Pino (Pulmonology)
  * Members: Eric Richardson (BME), Donna Crenshaw (MEDx)

#### Partner

  * Hondajet

### Hand Sanitizer Dispensers

#### Status: In Design

#### Need

Create 200 dispensing stations for hand sanitizer to support the opening of
Duke research laboratories.

#### Summary

  * Working on prototypes that include a stand and refill cartridges
  * Tray designed and built to store and transport refilled cartridges
  * Stand prototype received positive feedback
  * Integrating design with local manufacturer to scale

#### Team

  * Leads: Eric Richardson (BME), Donna Crenshaw (MEDx), Chip Bobbert (OIT)
  * Members: Collin Duckett, John Noonan and Scott Johanns

### Ventilator O2 Short-Range Activation

#### Status: In Testing

#### Need

To remotely press the "100% Oxygen Increase" button on a ventilator. This
would enable a patient to receive increased oxygen flow without requiring a
clinician to don full personal protective equipment.

#### Summary

  * Wired mechanism solution path chosen after initial meeting with
    respiratory therapist
  * Code, circuit diagram, CAD and bill of materials produced for wired
    mechanism
  * Prototyping has begun

#### Team

  * Lead: Alejandro Pino (Pulmonology)
  * Members: Parker Faircloth-Henise (BME), Katherine Waugh (ME), Michael Wong
    (BME)

#### Media

### ET Tube Joint

#### Status: Prototyping

#### Need

Reduce aerosolized particle formation and protect staff members by minimizing
the number of times an endotracheal tube (ET) must be disconnected.

#### Summary

  * The team has proposed two designs: a Y-joint that adds a bronchoscope
    port, and a Y-joint-plus-connector
  * Next steps include: 3D printing of designs for feedback from respiratory
    therapists, consideration of a compression fitting to reduce unintentional
    detachments and of a clip to secure the connection

#### Team

  * Lead: Alejandro Pino (Pulmonology)
  * Members: Taylor Huie, Aidan Therien

#### Media

### New Projects

#### Status: In queue

  * **Clear Earloop Face Mask** — For Duke Occupational and Environmental
    Safety Office (OESO) and the Disability Management System. A provider who
    sees pediatric patients at Lenox Baker Children's Hospital and Duke
    Children's Hospital and Health Center has requested an ADA accommodation
    for a clear-front earloop mask.
  * **Slit Lamp Shield** — Ophthalmologist Mark Goerlitz Jessen has requested
    a shield for a slit lamp to protect patients and providers from airborne
    infectious particles that may be transmitted during an eye exam.

* * *

## For More Information

Contact Duke

* * *

## Duke Engineering COVID-19 Response Stories

November 15, 2022 | Duke Engineering Magazine

### Detecting How COVID-19 Can Directly Infect and Damage Human Kidney Cells

April 21, 2022

### COVID-19 Can Infect and Damage Human Kidney Cells

January 07, 2022

### Simple pH Adjustment May Enable a Preventative COVID-19 Nasal and Throat
Spray

December 03, 2021

### Rapid Test Identifies Antibody Effectiveness Against COVID-19 Variants

View all COVID-19 news

* * *

## Team Partners

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

