Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# PhD Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. PhD

## Certificates

Aerospace Research Graduate Certificate (SOAR)

    

Students can expand their learning experience through the Aerospace Research
Graduate Certificate (SOAR). Faculty expertise includes structures and
dynamics, aerodynamics, acoustics, and mathematical and computational methods.

More about the Aerospace Research Graduate Certificate »

Certificate in Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering

    

A multidisciplinary certificate program integrates engineering, the life
sciences, and medicine. The research focus of the program is the interaction
of proteins, cells and tissues with materials and drugs in natural biological
processes, and in medical diagnosis and therapy.

More about the Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering Certificate »

Certificate in Photonics

    

The Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics at Duke University offers a graduate
certificate, open to any graduate student at Duke. The goal of the program is
to provide a venue for students to learn more about photonics as a path to
interdisciplinary research and technology development.

More about the Certificate in Photonics»

Certificate in Nanoscience

    

Duke MEMS participates in Duke's university-wide Graduate Certificate Program
in Nanoscience—which provides an interdisciplinary education in the broad
areas of nanoscience and nanomaterials.

More about the Certificate in Nanoscience »

## Fellowships

Engineering in Service to Society Fellowship

    

Through the generous support of the Lord Foundation, PhD students in Duke's
Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science can apply
for funding to support a semester gaining experience in the policy or
nonprofit sector. Students are encouraged to identify internships that align
with their research expertise—at the international, national or local levels.

More about the Engineering in Service to Society Fellowship »

Burroughs Wellcome Fund Fellowship

    

Through the generous support of the Burroughs Wellcome Foundation (BWF), PhD
students in Duke's Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering &
Materials Science working in the areas of biological sciences, climate change,
and human health can apply for $1,000 in discretionary funds for conference
travel, laptops, books, and professional development activities. Five BWF
Interdisciplinary Researcher fellowships are available. Applications require a
resume and two letters of recommendation. They will be evaluated the by PhD
Steering Committee.

For more information, contact Michell Tampe.

More about the Burroughs Wellcome Fund Fellowship »

## Research Traineeship Programs

NSF aiM Program (AI for Understanding and Designing Materials)

    

This National Science Foundation-supported research traineeship program is for
PhD students from degree programs in computer science, data science,
statistical science, and all materials disciplines (including materials
science, physics, chemistry, and all engineering fields) with the goal is
broadening the participation of women and other underrepresented groups. aiM
provides specialized coursework, professional skills development, and
experiential internships. Upon completion, each student is awarded an aiM PhD
Certificate of Specialization, in addition to their doctorate.

More about the aiM-AI traineeship program »

NIH Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering Pre-Doctoral Training

    

Through a National Institutes of Health biotechnology pre-doctoral training
grant, the Duke Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering (CBTE) supports
stipend, tuition and fees for 10 pre-doctoral fellows, with the Duke Graduate
School contributing two more fellowships for non-US citizens. Generally,
students are awarded an NIH CBTE fellowship during their first or second year
of graduate study and are supported for two years.

More about the CBTE Traineeship Program »

NSF Traineeship: Advancement of Surgical Technologies (TAST)

    

From autonomous robots that use AI and machine learning to make clinical
decisions, to tools that augment surgeons’ own capabilities, rapid changes in
surgical technologies have created new demands for the future workforce.

The National Science Foundation-funded **Traineeship for the Advancement of
Surgical Technologies** (TAST) prepares engineering and computer science
graduate students to design advanced surgical technologies that benefit
society through technical coursework, real-world surgical design challenges,
professional development and study of legal, ethical, societal and economic
considerations.

TAST Trainees will complete three components as part of the program:

  * A core Primers Course combining mini-design challenges with two-week
    primers on topics such as rapid prototyping, intellectual property, and
    robotics
  * A course in Machine Learning
  * A one-semester research project in collaboration with other TAST trainees
    and medical students

#### TAST Core Primer Course

_In this semester-long course, TAST trainees gain broad knowledge across many
disciplines related to advanced surgical technologies while engaging in
practical design challenges with clinicians at Duke Health._

**Primers Weeks 1-4**  
MP 1  
Initiation Surgery  Robotics  Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence  MP
1  
Presentation  
Mini Project (MP) 1  
**Primers Weeks 5-8**  
MP 2  
Initiation Medical Imaging Medical Technology Development  Medical, Law,
Policy & Ethics  MP 2  
Presentation  
Mini Project (MP) 2  
**Primers Weeks 9-12**  
MP 3  
Initiation Problems in Surgery  Shadow a Surgeon Shadow a Surgeon  MP 3  
Presentation  
Mini Project (MP) 3  
  
**Eligibility** : TAST is a two-year program open to PhD and master’s students
in the Pratt School of Engineering as well as the Department of Computer
Science.

**Application** : A rolling application process will be used in Spring 2022
for TAST trainees who will start in Fall 2022. **Please check back in January
2022 for further details regarding the application process.**

****Learn more:****Read an article about the TAST program

#### Faculty Leadership Team

Brian Mann, PI  
 _Professor, Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

Leila Bridgeman, Co-PI  
 _Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

Patrick Codd, MD, Co-PI  
 _Associate Professor, Neurosurgery_

Sabino Zani, MD, Co-PI  
 _Assistant Professor, Surgery_

## PhD Contacts

### Christine Payne

Yoh Family Professor and Director of Graduate Studies

__919-681-2096

__dgs-mems@duke.edu

### Lawrie Virgin

Professor and Associate Director of Graduate Studies

__919-660-5342

__l.virgin@duke.edu

### Michell Tampe

Graduate Studies Program Coordinator

__919-660-5311

__michell.tampe@duke.edu

  * Quick Facts & Statistics
  * More about Student Services & Amenities
  * Meet Engineering PhD Alumni

Browse Online

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

