

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# Craig Stephen Hurwitz

Executive in Residence in the Pratt School of Engineering

Craig Hurwitz is a seasoned Financial Services professional with deep subject
matter expertise and extensive behind-the-scenes exposure to the target
operating models and risk taxonomies of many of the world's largest banks,
broker/dealers, RIA’s, asset management firms, Sovereign Wealth Funds, and
Family Offices.

Among his courses, Mr. Hurwitz teaches a core course on the Financial Services
industry in the Master of Engineering in Financial Technology program.
Financial Institution Products and Services provides students with a practical
understanding of the structure of the financial services industry and how
products and services integrate into the financial system. The course assesses
how technology innovation is transforming access to services, business models,
and the customer experience. Finally, the course evaluates the industry's
reliance on financial intermediaries and the potential for disintermediation.

Mr. Hurwitz’s consulting projects have tended to focus on Broker-Dealers with
large Investment Advisory businesses on matters pertaining to regulatory
remediation. Mr. Hurwitz also served as a Senior Advisor to the Monitor for a
top-5 global bank under a Department of Justice Deferred Prosecution
Agreement. In this role, he was responsible for evaluating global trading
processes to monitor the bank’s vulnerability to further potential incidents
of fraud. While at PwC, he consulted with some of the world's largest
financial services organizations in the areas of Risk, Regulatory and Fraud,
Trading Controls, Technology, Investment Strategy, Fiduciary and Trust, and
Front/Middle/Back office operations. He was viewed as one of the key thought
leaders in the PwC Wealth and Asset Management Advisory practice. Mr. Hurwitz
established the BlackRock Private Investors operation for the Midwest region
and acted as Senior Portfolio Manager and Team Leader. He served as Senior
Portfolio Manager at Fifth Third Asset Management, Inc. where he managed
institutional client portfolios and relationships totaling over $1.5 billion.
Mr. Hurwitz’s extensive trading experience includes having worked on the floor
of the New York Stock Exchange. He has led teams as large as 150 people in
size.

Mr. Hurwitz is a CFA charter holder. He has held FINRA Series 7, 63, 65, and
66 licenses. He earned his B.A. in Economics from Ohio Wesleyan University and
was awarded an M.B.A in Marketing from Indiana University.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Executive in Residence in the Pratt School of Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 110 Science Dr, Box 90271, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5455
  * **Email Address:** craig.hurwitz@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke Cybersecurity Master of Engineering
    * Duke Financial Technology Master of Engineering (FinTech)
    * Duke Institute for Enterprise Engineering

## Education

  * M.B.A. Indiana University at Bloomington, 1992

## Courses Taught

  * FINTECH 502: FinTech Capstone
  * FINTECH 520: Financial Institution Products & Services
  * FINTECH 550: Emerging Trends for FinTech
  * MENG 551: Master of Engineering Internship/Project Assessment

## In the News

  * Craig Hurwitz: Bringing Financial Technology Insights to the Classroom
    (Jun 10, 2021 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Craig Hurwitz: Bringing Financial Technology Insights to the Classroom
    (Jun 8, 2021 | Duke Engineering News)

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

