

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# Jeffrey Glass

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Jeffrey T. Glass is a Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering and Director of the Institute for Enterprise Engineering. He holds
the Hogg Family endowed chair in Engineering Management and Entrepreneurship.
Formerly, he was the Co-Director of The Institute for the Integration of
Management and Engineering at Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) and held
the Joseph F. Toot, Jr. endowed chair in the Case School of Engineering. Prior
to these university appointments he was the Vice President of R&D for Kobe
Steel USA Inc. Jeff received his Bachelors and Masters degrees from Johns
Hopkins University, and a Ph.D. in Materials Science and Engineering from the
University of Virginia. He also received an MBA from Duke University's Global
Executive (GEMBA) program.

His current research involves electronic materials and the associated
devices/instruments improved by these materials. In particular, miniature mass
spectrometer development and engineered systems for waste treatment are
systems of focus for his lab. He is also involved in the development of joint
educational, research and technology transfer activities related to the
intersection of business and technology. He consults and holds advisory board
appointments with various companies in materials-related areas and has served
as an expert witness in patent litigation. Prior to his appointment at CWRU,
he was the Vice President of R&D for Kobe Steel USA Inc. with a focus on
electronic materials. Prior to joining Kobe Steel, he was a tenured faculty
member in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at North
Carolina State University. He has been involved in the study of Innovation
Management in technology-based organizations with a focus on the early stages
of technical development and received the 2004 Industrial Research Institute’s
Maurice Holland Award for his paper entitled “Managing the Ties Between
Central R&D and Business Units.”

Jeff's technical research has focused on the growth and characterization of
thin films for electronics, including carbon nanotubes, graphene, graphenated
carbon nanotubes, diamond, silicon carbide and chalcogenides. Chemical vapor
deposition, sputtering, materials analysis and electronic/electrochemical
properties are his areas of interest. Miniature mass spectrometers,
decentralized waste treatment, smart toilets and photoelectrochemical energy
conversion devices are some of the applications his lab focuses on. He has
published over 175 papers and book chapters, edited seven books and is a co-
inventor on 14 patents. He has been a short course instructor for several
professional societies and companies and has organized numerous conferences.
He has given over 75 invited presentations in 12 different countries. He
served as a member of a Presidential Science Advisor's committee for the
assessment of diamond technology in Japan and has received two teaching awards
and the National Science Foundation Presidential Young Investigator award. He
has held adjunct faculty appointments at North Carolina State University, Case
Western Reserve University and the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the
University of North Carolina where he has taught executive courses on Managing
Innovation.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Director of the Pratt Masters Programs and Hogg Family Director of
    Engineering Management and Entrepreneurship
  * Director of the Institute for Enterprise Engineering (IEnE)
  * Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
    Materials Science
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative
  * Associate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society
  * Core Faculty in Innovation & Entrepreneurship

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Packages: Hudson Hall Room 129, Office: Teer Bldg Rm
    118, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 452-7158
  * **Email Address:** jeff.glass@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholars Web Page
    * J.T.Glass Nanomaterials and Thin Films Lab
    * Masters of Engineering Management Program

## Education

  * M.B.A. Duke University, 1999
  * Ph.D. University of Virginia, 1986
  * M.Sc.Eng. Johns Hopkins University, 1983
  * B.S.E. Johns Hopkins University, 1981

## Research Interests

Electronic materials and the associated devices/instruments improved by these
materials, especially electrode applications in miniature mass spectrometry,
energy conversion and storage and liquid waste disinfection for developing
regions. Electrochemical measurements and applications of thin films,
including carbon nanotubes, graphene and atomic layer deposited oxides are of
particular interest

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Stansell Family Distinguished Research Award. Pratt School of Engineering.
    2015
  * Highly Cited Researcher. Thomson Reuters. 2001

## Courses Taught

  * EGRMGMT 572: Innovation Management in Technology-Based Organizations
  * MSEG 591: Independent Study

## In the News

  * Engineering Dean Bellamkonda Named Provost at Emory University; Glass to
    Serve as Interim Dean (Feb 16, 2021)
  * Stretched to Eight Times Their Size, These Supercapacitors Are Ready for
    Your Wearable Devices (Mar 19, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Toilet Paper Sabotage Isn't Stopping Progress on Project to 'Reinvent the
    Toilet' (Feb 17, 2020 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Reinventing the Toilet (Nov 5, 2018 | Duke Stories)
  * Duke's Community-Based Toilet System Begins Testing in India (Apr 25, 2018
    | Duke Global Health Institute)
  * Duke's Community-Based Toilet System Begins Testing in India (Apr 4, 2018
    | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Duke, RTI International Partner on Improved Global Sanitation (Aug 28,
    2017)
  * Engineering the Toilet (May 11, 2017 | DukEngineer Magazine)
  * Energy Initiative Awards Seven New Seed Grants (Apr 28, 2017)
  * Coding and Computers Help Spot Methane, Explosives (Apr 15, 2016)
  * Duke University innovation may lead to portable mass spectrometers (Apr
    14, 2016 | Homeland Security Today)
  * Duke Engineers Help Launch Off-Grid Sanitation System in India (Sep 25,
    2015)
  * Sniffing Out Gas Leaks: Pratt Researchers Work on Next-Generation Methane
    Detector (Feb 19, 2015)
  * Energy deputy secretary: Duke’s innovative energy research essential to
    security, safety (Apr 24, 2014)
  * Energy Initiative Provides First Round of Research Seed Funding (Apr 16,
    2014)
  * U.S. Reps Visit Federally Funded Airport Security Research at Duke (Nov 7,
    2013)

## Representative Publications

  * Aloui, T; Serpa, RB; Abboud, N; Horvath, KL; Keogh, J; Parker, CB; Stern,
    JC; Denton, MB; Sartorelli, ML; Glass, JT; Gehm, ME; Amsden, JJ, _A super-
    resolution proof of concept in a cycloidal coded aperture miniature mass
    spectrometer_ , Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry : Rcm (2023)
    [10.1002/rcm.9477] [abs].
  * Serpa, RB; Piacentino, EL; Horvath, KL; Aloui, T; Zhilichev, Y; Parker,
    CB; Glass, JT; Tilden, SB; Keogh, JA; Kingston, R; Sperline, RP; Denton,
    MB; Amsden, JJ, _Virtual-slit focusing in a cycloidal mass spectrometer –
    A proof of concept_ , International Journal of Mass Spectrometry, vol 470
    (2021) [10.1016/j.ijms.2021.116706] [abs].
  * Piacentino, EL; Serpa, RB; Horvath, KL; Vyas, R; Aloui, T; Parker, CB;
    Carlson, JB; Keogh, J; Sperline, RP; Sartorelli, ML; Stoner, BR; Gehm, ME;
    Glass, JT; Denton, MB; Amsden, JJ, _The Long Neglected Cycloidal Mass
    Analyzer._ , Analytical Chemistry, vol 93 no. 33 (2021), pp. 11357-11363
    [10.1021/acs.analchem.1c02001] [abs].
  * Vyas, R; Aloui, T; Horvath, K; Herr, PJ; Kirley, MP; Parker, CB; Keil, AD;
    Carlson, JB; Keogh, J; Sperline, RP; Denton, MB; Sartorelli, ML; Stoner,
    BR; Gehm, ME; Glass, JT; Amsden, JJ, _Improving the Performance of a
    Cycloidal Coded-Aperture Miniature Mass Spectrometer._ , Journal of the
    American Society for Mass Spectrometry, vol 32 no. 2 (2021), pp. 509-518
    [10.1021/jasms.0c00378] [abs].
  * Zhou, Y; Parker, CB; Joshi, P; Naskar, AK; Glass, JT; Cao, C, _4D Printing
    of Stretchable Supercapacitors via Hybrid Composite Materials_ , Advanced
    Materials Technologies, vol 6 no. 1 (2021) [10.1002/admt.202001055] [abs].

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

