

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# Jimmie Lenz

Executive in Residence in the Pratt School of Engineering

Dr. Lenz is an experienced executive, lecturer, and scholar in the field of
banking and capital markets.

Jimmie is the Director of the Master of Engineering in FinTech and the Master
of Engineering in Cybersecurity at the Pratt School, teaching Machine
Learning, Blockchain, financial innovation, and financial products and
services. He has a secondary appointment as the Irene and Frank Salerno
Visiting Professor of Financial Economics, and leads the Digital Asset
Research and Engineering Collaborative (DAREC).

Starting his career as an equity and derivatives trader over 25 years ago,
Jimmie found he reveled in fast moving atmospheres that required both
strategic thought and the ability to take immediate action. His successes
propelled him into a number of senior management roles within the finance
community including leading an NYSE broker dealer with foreign and domestic
operations, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Credit Officer at a top three broker
dealer, and the Head of Predictive Analytics for one of the largest Wealth
Management firms in the US.

Global financial services firms and exchanges have engaged Jimmie to address
issues related to strategy, analytics application, risk mitigation, and
business efficiencies. This in-depth understanding of the capital markets
industry has allowed him to provide crucial perspectives in foreign and
domestic regulatory matters, including the presentation of findings to the
Security and Exchange Commission.

Jimmie holds an undergraduate degree from the University of South Carolina, a
Master of Science in Finance from Washington University in Saint Louis, and
Doctor of Business Administration-Finance from Washington University’s Olin
Business School. Jimmie currently serves on the Board of Directors of Horizen
Blockchain Foundation and as an Advisor to REIN insurance. He frequently
speaks and publishes on topics leveraging innovation, Machine Learning,
Blockchain, and quantitative analysis and has a number of pending patents
related to his work.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Executive in Residence in the Pratt School of Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** jimmie.lenz@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke Cybersecurity Master of Engineering
    * Duke FinTech Master of Engineering
    * Personal Web Site

## Education

  * D.B.A. Washington University in St. Louis, 2016

## Courses Taught

  * CYBERSEC 501: Seminar
  * CYBERSEC 504: Introductory Residency
  * CYBERSEC 505: Mid-Program Residency
  * CYBERSEC 590: Advanced Topics in Cybersecurity
  * ECE 590: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * FINTECH 501: Financial Technology Seminar
  * FINTECH 502: FinTech Capstone
  * FINTECH 504: Introductory Residency
  * FINTECH 505: Mid-Program Residency
  * FINTECH 506: Concluding Residency
  * FINTECH 512: Software Engineering for FinTech
  * FINTECH 520: Financial Institution Products & Services
  * FINTECH 522: Asset Pricing and Risk Management
  * FINTECH 536: Robo-Advising: The Future of Investing?
  * FINTECH 540: Machine Learning for FinTech
  * FINTECH 545: Quantitative Risk Management
  * FINTECH 550: Emerging Trends for FinTech
  * FINTECH 552: FinTech Business Models
  * FINTECH 564: Blockchain
  * FINTECH 565: Advanced Blockchain - Smart Contacts and Solidity Coding
  * FINTECH 590: Advanced Topics in Financial Technology
  * FINTECH 591: Special Readings in Financial Technology
  * MENG 550: Master of Engineering Internship/Project
  * MENG 551: Master of Engineering Internship/Project Assessment
  * MENG 552: Master of Engineering Supplemental Internship

## In the News

  * Exploring the Future of Digital Assets (Jan 10, 2023 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Jimmie Lenz on Why an NFT Makes for a More Secure, Versatile Diploma (May
    9, 2022)
  * Duke Engineering’s FinTech Program Sends Certificates to Coursera Students
    as NFTs (Jan 19, 2022 | Pratt School of Engineering)

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

