

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# Kim Leslie Kotlar

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

Kim Kotlar brings more than 40 years of national security experience,
including diverse executive leadership positions within the U.S. Congress,
National Security Agency (NSA), Intelligence Community, Department of Defense
(DoD), and other federal agencies. She is currently a strategic consultant to
the North Carolina Defense Technology Transition Office and the Economic
Development Partnership of North Carolina. Kim spends her free time mentoring
Duke graduate and undergraduate students and coaching the Duke Cyber Club.

Kim recently retired as an NSA executive, where she managed several
operational organizations and led the initiative to create the agency’s Civil
Liberties and Privacy Office. Prior to NSA, Kim held a range of national
security-related leadership positions on Capitol Hill, including: Senior staff
member for Congressman Mac Thornberry; and Senior Staff Director,
Cybersecurity, Science and Technology Subcommittee of the House Select
Committee on Homeland Security. She was also a staff member for the House of
Representatives’ panel investigating state and federal responses in the
aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Six months before 9-11, working closely with
Congressman Thornberry, she authored and led House staff activities leading to
the enactment of legislation creating the Department of Homeland Security. In
2005 the National Journal recognized her as one of the “Hill 100” Top
Congressional Staff members, citing her substantive contributions across the
breadth of national security issues.

Kim enlisted in the U.S. Navy in 1977 and subsequently obtained a commission
as a Cryptologic Officer. Kim capped her 20-year naval service as a senior
staff officer for the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control,
Communications, and Intelligence and later on the staff of the Director, NSA.
In these positions she developed, coordinated, and guided implementation of
plans and policies which directly impacted national cyber operations planning
and execution.

Kim holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from the New York Board of Regents and a
Master of Science degree in Management from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate
School, Monterey, CA.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 110 Science Drive, Box 90271, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 684-3905
  * **Email Address:** kim.kotlar@duke.edu

## Education

  * M.S. Naval Postgraduate School, 1992
  * B.A. University of the State of New York, 1982

## Courses Taught

  * BIOETHIC 705: Capstone: Bioethics & Science Policy
  * CYBERSEC 502: Cybersecurity and Interdisciplinary
    Law/Ethics/Policy/Privacy Considerations

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

