

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine

# DukEngineer Magazine 2021

**In this issue:** The New Wilkinson Building Opens, Responding and Adapting
to a Pandemic, Neurosurgical Holograms and Tomorrow’s Wearable Tech, A New
EngEn for Innovation and more.

Scroll down to view all the stories!

## Meet the Editors

###  **Editor-in-Chief**

 **Mary Gooneratne** is a senior concluding studies in electrical and computer
engineering and computer science. At Duke, she’s actively involved with the
Duke Applied Machine Learning Group, the Baldwin Scholars program, and the
DTech scholars program. She’s grateful for the way in which Pratt has fostered
her love for technology and innovation. Outside of the classroom she loves to
run and read.

### Editorial Team

 **Ace Abdulrahman** is a first-year international student considering
BME/ECE. He is interested in studying the brain and seeks research
opportunities in neurobiology. On campus, Ace is also involved with Blackwell-
Randolph House Council, AMA club and research in the School of Medicine. In
his leisure, he enjoys playing soccer, practicing calisthenics and journaling.

 **Woodley Burrow** is a junior from Houston, Texas studying mechanical
engineering.

 **Katie Cobb** is a junior from Olney, Maryland studying ME with a
certificate in Energy and the Environment. She is passionate about renewable
energy engineering and sustainability.

 **Anna Demelo** is a freshman from Charlotte, North Carolina. She intends to
major in biomedical engineering. On campus, Anna is involved in the Duke
Catholic Center, DEID and The Muse.

 **Shreyas Hegde** is a PhD student in the Aeroelasticity lab advised by Prof.
Bob Kielb. His research is in the area of unsteady aerodynamics and
aeromechanics of aircraft engines. He is an aviation enthusiast and intends to
pursue a career in that field. Apart from his research, Shreyas is a part of
several on-campus organizations in various leadership roles including the Duke
Hyperloop team and the GPSC. During his free time he mostly reads business
news related to the aviation industry.

 **Sunggun Lee** is a freshman from Boise, Idaho studying biomedical
engineering. He is interested in developing models and systems for medical
purposes. Sunggun is also involved in Duke Engineers for International
Development, Engineering World Health, and Duke Cru. In his free time he likes
to play soccer, listen and play music, and spend time with his family.

 **Will Rawlings** is a junior studying mechanical engineering and earth/ocean
sciences. He is interested in the renewable energy industry and hopes to help
in the fight against climate change. Will is also on the editorial board for
Duke’s Independent Film Festival and on the executive team of Audacity Labs, a
non-profit founded by Duke students to expose high schoolers to technology and
entrepreneurship skills. In his free time, he enjoys playing sports, film
photography and hiking.

 **Luke Truitt** is a senior graduating with degrees in ECE, economics and CS.
He’s from St. Cloud, MN, is a Scorpio, and generally enjoys long walks on
beaches. At Duke, he helps lead the Duke Speech Team and the Duke Applied
Machine Learning Group. He’s interested in artificial intelligence, behavioral
economics, financial technologies and the religious development of the
Southwest United States. He spends most of his time outside of work with his
pet rat, Jakoby, who turned one on January 12, 2021.

 **Garrett McKeown Wessler** is a fifth-year PhD candidate in the Thomas Lord
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science. He works in David
Mitzi’s lab and his research focuses on the discovery and development of new
and complex materials for energy applications. Garrett spends his free time
exploring Durham and hiking with his wife and dog.

## Letter from the Dean

As I write this letter in March 2021, a full year after the pandemic began
making major changes to all of our lives, I can’t imagine being more proud of
how Duke Engineering has handled this year like no other. When the challenges
arose, our students, faculty and staff rose to them with the enthusiasm,
ingenuity and dedication that makes this school so special.

We used existing collaborations among engineering departments and Duke’s
medical and nursing schools to launch the COVID Engineering Response Team,
which instituted a rapid but rigorous design process to engineer devices such
as improved face shields, isolation tents for patient beds and modifications
for common equipment to protect first-line responders worldwide. Student
leaders banded together with our new Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn) team
to find new virtual opportunities for summer internships. We created lab kits
and shipped them to students around the world to ensure they could still
participate in the hands-on courses that define our undergraduate curriculum.
And for those who were able to return to campus in person, our student clubs
and teams rearranged workspaces and schedules to safely continue their
inspirational projects.

While I marvel and rejoice in our community’s resourcefulness and commitment
to education and each other in the face of such rare adversity, it is also a
bittersweet moment for me as this will be my final Dean’s Letter in the
DukEngineer Magazine. As many of you have heard by now, I have accepted the
opportunity to serve Emory University as their next Provost and Executive Vice
President starting July 1, 2021. The past five years serving as the Vinik Dean
of the Pratt School of Engineering has been an honor and a joy, and I believe
the school is in a prime position to continue its incredible upward
trajectory.

This January, we opened the new **Wilkinson Building** for student classes—a
beautiful facility that includes the first specially designed active-learning
classrooms on campus, and expands our student learning space by 50 percent.
Our faculty has not only grown in numbers while maintaining our leadership in
signature areas such as Aeroelasticity, but new awards for research have
increased by 30 percent to a record $97 million last year. A testament to our
ability to recruit outstanding teachers and researchers can be found in the
hiring of biomedical engineer/entrepreneur extraordinaire Cameron McIntyre and
expert in smart materials and wearable devices Xiaoyue Ni, to name just a few.

We have reimagined our undergraduate experience, including introducing our
signature First-Year Design course and new programs in engineering
entrepreneurship and ethics, purpose and meaning. We have also maintained
innovative options that provide flexibility such as our IDEAS Program, which
provides students a path for creating their own unique major.

> “Duke Engineering owes its present strength to everyone who has contributed
> to our vision over the years, and its future is particularly bright thanks
> to our incredible faculty, staff, parents and alumni, and most of all our
> amazing students.”

There is still much to do, of course. Our work against systemic racism,
efforts to build community and an inclusive culture, and the cause of student,
staff and faculty well-being, especially as we emerge from the COVID pandemic,
must carry on strong. I’m confident that we are heading in the correct
direction and having some of the tough conversations that must take place, and
am especially encouraged by the proactive leadership I have seen through
events such as our student-led _**Engineering While Black**_ program. Provost
Sally Kornbluth, who is a staunch advocate for Pratt and our vision, has made
plans to ensure that our strong momentum continues throughout this transition.
She has appointed longtime ECE professor and Senior Associate Dean Jeff Glass
as Pratt’s interim dean while launching a national search for the next Vinik
Dean of Engineering.

Needless to say, both my wife, Lalita, and I will miss Duke very much. Duke is
family, and Duke and Durham will always be a part of our lives—we are fellow
Duke parents whose son is a current senior, after all! But Duke is “in” us
more deeply; it is a very hard place to leave because it is a good place in
the true sense of the word—its people and its spirit are committed to making
the world a better place. I will truly miss being a day-to-day part of this
vibrant community.

Duke Engineering is not about individuals, however; we have a shared culture
of success, of rising higher, of outrageous ambition that will undoubtedly
persist on the foundation we’ve collectively laid over the past few years.
None of what we’ve achieved would have been possible without the incredible
talent and vision already here. Duke Engineering owes its present strength to
everyone who has contributed to our vision over the years, and its future is
particularly bright thanks to our incredible faculty, staff, parents and
alumni, and most of all our amazing students.

My profound thanks to all of you for supporting our journey—we would not be
where we are without your belief in Duke and its vision and energy. Like you,
I will always be a part of the Duke family, both as a Duke parent, and as one
who will always be first to wish our students, and our beloved Duke, nothing
but soaring success.

 **Ravi V. Bellamkonda  
** Vinik Dean of Engineering

## Letter from the ESG President

For years, Engineering Student Government’s mission has been to enrich the
lives of our engineering student body. In a time of such uncertainty, we aim
to support students socially and academically even more than ever before. This
year has not been easy, but every day I am impressed by the resilience of my
peers and look forward to when we can all gather again on the Harrington Quad
or in our beautiful new Wilkinson Building.

Duke Engineering students have had to navigate a shift to virtual labs, online
office hours, remote internships and Zoom meetings for group projects. Pratt
student groups have found creative ways to remain engaged this semester,
through guest speakers and skills workshops offered online. Fortunately, Pratt
clubs secured permission to reserve design spaces to continue projects—with
proper masking and social distancing—thanks to an understanding that
engineering projects require in-person collaboration.

> “Pratt student groups have found creative ways to remain engaged this
> semester, through guest speakers and skills workshops offered online.”

Similarly, many ESG events are based around building community through social
events, so navigating the shift to virtual activities was certainly a
challenge. We had to say goodbye to our iconic E-Ball and E-Picnics, and there
were no weekly Friday hangouts at Twinnies for E-Socials. We started hosting
virtual E-socials (e-E-socials) with some student groups and companies.
Because of Zoom fatigue, virtual event participation is not on pace with our
prior bustling E-socials, yet we were thrilled when just one student showed up
to our “Meet ESG” E-social. Forming a connection with even one new student is
so important at this time.

After a racial reckoning this past summer, ESG recognized its responsibility
as leaders in the Pratt School of Engineering to speak up about injustice in
the field of engineering. We teamed up with Duke’s chapters of the National
Society of Black Engineers, Society of Women Engineers and Society of Hispanic
Professional Engineers to host Engineering While Black, a week dedicated to
raising awareness about racial inequalities and funds toward supporting
minorities in STEM. Together we hosted Zoom webinars with local foundations
dedicated to racial justice work and with professors and professionals of
color in the field of engineering. Later in the semester, we invited Pratt
students to join the members of ESG in a Race 101 workshop hosted by the
Center for Multicultural Affairs. Following these conversations, ESG added a
requirement for Pratt clubs to demonstrate their own commitment to diversity
and inclusion during their funding proposals. I would like to thank seniors
Alexa Tannenbaum and Matthew Jaynes for their diligent work in planning this
event.

In the year ahead, ESG looks forward to welcoming everyone back to our
regularly scheduled programming of live and in-person E-Ball and E-Picnics.
Moreover, we are committed to working toward a more inclusive engineering
community at Duke and beyond.

 **Emma Steadman**  
ESG President

## Letter from the EGSC President

One of the main reasons why I decided to attend Duke was the Pratt graduate
student community. At most of my other school visits, recruitments were
department-only events, where I only got to speak with other prospective and
current graduate students in civil and  
environmental engineering programs. However, on my Duke visit, I was able to
talk with students interested in machine learning, air pollution chemistry,
biomechanics, tissue engineering and various other research areas outside of
my specialty. I was immersed in the Pratt student community where department
boundaries didn’t dictate your social circle. Duke really made an effort for
me to meet students across all of Pratt, instead keeping me in a silo. This
was just my first encounter with the graduate student community here at Duke.

Once on campus, I saw that these gatherings of all of Pratt were not just for
recruitment, but a common occurrence. I saw during my first year that the
Engineering Graduate Student Council (EGSC) was one of the main facilitators
for this sense of community among our students. I’ve been lucky enough to be
serving my third year on the EGSC board with stints as CEE rep/diversity and
inclusion rep (2018-2019), vice president (2019-2020), and now president
(2020-2021). Being a part of EGSC has been one of the highlights of my time
here at Duke; helping to organize Pratt tents for Campout, watching Duke vs.
UNC at the Krafthouse, volunteering with the Food Bank of Central and Eastern
North Carolina, our annual Envisioning the Invisible Contest, cornhole
tournaments, our weekly Pratt Chats, and so much more. I was ecstatic to help
to grow this organization as president this past year and help our community
grow stronger and more cohesive. But then COVID-19 hit the United States.

I was not expecting my tenure as EGSC president to involve a global pandemic
shutting down campus for months and isolating the Pratt graduate student
community from one another. EGSC’s number-one priority became keeping our
graduate student community, as well as the greater Duke and Durham community,
as safe as possible. This meant stopping all in-person programming and
adhering to all CDC and Duke health and safety guidelines. However, to try and
cultivate that sense of community that makes Pratt so unique, we began
switching our programming to Zoom and online-based activities. From virtual
happy hours to game nights to trivia, we’ve been doing our best to stay
connected to the Duke community during these difficult times.

One of our most successful events was a First-Year Virtual Mixer, where we
split groups of first-year students into various groups with senior graduate
students to fill out Social Distancing Bingo Cards. It was a great opportunity
for first-years to meet other students, while also interacting with more
senior graduate students. EGSC was also successful at advocating for graduate
students to have access to online programming from Duke Recreation & Physical
Education. We felt that it was extremely pertinent to not cut graduate
students off from resources promoting physical well-being during an extremely
stressful and difficult time. We were able to then have the Graduate School
instate online recreation memberships for all graduate students who wanted
one. EGSC is still committed to advocating for our students even through these
unprecedented times.

> “This team has been incredible during these challenging times. Having to
> adapt based on the ever-changing situation has not been easy, and I cannot
> be more grateful for their hard work and dedication.”

As the year continues, we’re trying to ramp up our online programming as
COVID-19 persists. We planned a virtual cooking class for snacks to serve at
your stay-at-home Super Bowl viewing, and plan on continuing virtual happy
hours and game nights. We also hope to increase our outreach to the Durham
community in a safe and socially distant way. For recruiting, we still want to
demonstrate the strong sense of community here at Pratt by having office hours
with EGSC board members to talk all things Duke. All of this would not be
possible without the amazing 2020-2021 Board:

  *  **Kat Horvath** , Vice-President
  *  **Ellery Jones** , Diversity and Inclusion
  *  **Shanmanthi Manoharan** , Communications Director
  *  **Shreyas Hedge** , Treasurer
  *  **Karsten Pouslen** , MEMS
  *  **Mitchell Abrams** , BME Rep
  *  **Andrew Middleton** , CEE Rep
  *  **Brittani Carroll** , ECE Rep

This team has been incredible during these challenging times. Having to adapt
based on the ever-changing situation has not been easy, and I cannot be more
grateful for their hard work and dedication. EGSC hopes to return to in-person
activities once it is safe to do so, and we can’t wait to experience that
great in-person community we miss so much. Until we can enjoy a drink on
Harrington Quad on a Friday evening, stay safe!

 **Jake Ulrich**  
EGSC President

## Letter from the EAC President

Dear Duke Engineering Alumni:

The year of 2020 was, of course, in almost every way, not what any of us
imagined it would be. Despite the many challenges, I am incredibly proud of
the work of our Engineering Alumni Council to adapt and press forward with
meaningful programs to support our alumni, our current students and our
school.

Our mentoring program has continued to grow, reaching over 600 alumni and
students this year, making it one of the largest of its kind across any school
or unit at Duke. Most importantly, our alumni continue to show overwhelming
commitment to connecting with and supporting our students during this period,
which is incredibly difficult for so many. Even the most simple conversations
can be immensely impactful right now. I cannot say thank you enough to all the
alumni who have given their time.

Some of our most successful programs, such as TAPA Talks and our Resume
Review/Mock Interview sessions, have moved to an online platform and been
incredibly well received. Thank you to everyone who participated in these
programs, whether as a speaker, an interviewer or just behind the scenes
helping make it happen.

> “Our alumni continue to show overwhelming commitment to connecting with and
> supporting our students during this period, which is incredibly difficult
> for so many. Even the most simple conversations can be immensely impactful
> right now. I cannot say thank you enough to all the alumni who have given
> their time.”

There is a lot to look forward to in 2021 and beyond, and Duke Engineering is
no exception. We welcome the opening of the beautiful new Wilkinson Building
that greatly expands the school’s research and teaching capabilities, as well
as an impressive new Quantum Computing Center in the Chesterfield Building in
downtown Durham. You will also soon hear more about Pratt’s 2039 Plan, a
distinctly Duke vision for the future of the school, which includes a focus on
growing and developing alumni engagement as one of its core principles. And of
course, last but not least, we welcome a new EAC President, Tracy Nickelsburg
E’88, P’22. Tracy has been a member of the council since 2013 and an integral
member of our executive committee since 2018. I cannot wait to see all the
great things the EAC accomplishes under her leadership in the coming years.

Those of you who know me know that I might occasionally geek out on data and
might occasionally (obsessively) listen to Stephen Dubner’s Freakonomics
Podcast. In the last year, he has closed his podcasts with a slightly
different message, which I will borrow here:

Take care of yourselves, and if you can, someone else too.

 **Will Senner, E'06,MEM'06**  
President, Engineering Alumni Council

## Alumni & Development News

  * Class Notes
  * In Memory
  * Annual Fund
  * Donor Honor Roll

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

Browse digital magazine

Download accessible PDF »

## Building Pratt Stronger

### The Wilkinson Building: Reimagining Engineering Education

When students returned to campus in January 2021, they were welcomed with
150,000 square feet worth of new and exciting opportunities

### Uplifting, Educating and Listening: It’s Not Over

“Engineering While Black” creates a series of important conversations produced
by ESG, NSBE, SWE, and SHPE

## Adapting to a Year Like No Other

### Innovation Amidst a Pandemic

A glimpse into Duke’s COVID-19 Engineering Response Team

### Remote Engineering During a Pandemic

Pratt students and classes adapt to virtual learning

### Pratt Student Organizations: Resilience During COVID-19

Despite the pandemic, Pratt student organizations find ways to continue to
provide enriching experiences to its members

### Saving the Summer Internship

Phoenix Project provides critical summer internships for students during the
pandemic

## Research Reports

### Revolutionizing Neurosurgical Planning With the Use of Holograms

Cameron McIntyre brings to Duke a long history of translating innovations in
Deep Brain Stimulation into commercial medical devices

### Designing the Future of Medical Technologies

Xiaoyue Ni is pushing her field into the future using smart materials and
wearable devices

### Keeping Airplanes, Rockets and Helicopters in the Sky

Aeroelasticity at Duke University has grown and thrived for more than three
decades

## The Duke Engineering Difference

### Engineering Entrepreneurship: An Engine for Innovation

Duke Engineering’s new “EngEn” initiative serves as a catalyst for the
creation of high-impact products and cutting-edge technology

### An Exploration of the Pratt IDEAS Program

Duke Engineering’s IDEAS Program provides students a path for creating their
own unique major

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

