Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Master's Certificate in Neural Engineering

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Certificates

Research and industry activity related to neural engineering is rapidly
growing

Duke BME faculty are leaders in neural engineering—the discovery of new
applications of tools, approaches and skills to diagnose, study, and treat
disorders and diseases of the human nervous system.

Our faculty maintains extensive collaborations with the Duke Institute for
Brain Sciences, the Center for Cognitive Neuroscience, and the Duke University
School of Medicine departments of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Radiology, and
Duke's interdepartmental Program in Neurobiology.

Duke offers master's students a 12-credit Certificate in Neural Engineering.
Students who earn it gain analytical skills and practical experience which
will allow them to successfully compete for opportunities as engineers in the
medical device industry and as doctoral students at highly-regarded
universities.

This master's certificate program is available to Duke Master of Engineering
(MEng) and Master of Science (MS) students who intend to pursue careers or
enter doctoral programs relating to neural engineering.

  * Faculty
  * Requirements
  * How to Apply
  * Contact us

* * *

## Faculty

### Warren Grill

**Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering**

Warren Grill's team works on fundamental questions and applied development in
electrical stimulation of the nervous system to restore function to
individuals with neurological impairment or injury. More »

### Jonathan Viventi

**Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering**

Jonathan Viventi's research involves using flexible electronics to create new
technology for interfacing with the brain at high resolution over large areas.
More »

### Marc Sommer

**W. H. Gardener, Jr. Associate Professor**

Using a combination of neurophysiology and biomedical engineering, Marc
Sommer's research focuses on the interaction between brain areas during visual
perception, decision-making and motor planning. More »

### Timothy Dunn

**Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering**

Timothy Dunn and his team develop novel 3D behavior-tracking technologies to
track and model movement to more precisely, enabling them to better decipher
neuronal activity. More »

### Yiyang Gong

**Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering**

Yiyang Gong and his team develop novel combinations of optical microscopy and
genetically encoded sensors to better record and understand brain activity.
More »

### Roger C. Barr

**Professor of Biomedical Engineering**

Roger Barr's work involves neural stimulation, with past work that includes an
examination of the characterization and behavior of cuff electrodes. More »

### Craig S. Henriquez

**Professor of Biomedical Engineering**

Craig Henriquez's research interests include large scale computing, heart
modeling and brain modeling. More »

### Patrick D. Wolf

**Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering**

Patrick Wolf's research is primarily in the area of advanced instrumentation
for diagnosis and treatment of electrophysiological problems. More »

### Junjie Yao

**Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering**

Junjie Yao and his lab develop state-of-the-art photoacoustic tomography
technologies and translate PAT advances into diagnostic and therapeutic
applications. More »

### Cameron McIntyre

**Professor of Biomedical Engineering**

Cameron McIntyre's research involves improving deep brain stimulation (DBS)
for the treatment of movement disorders and provides the fundamental
technologies necessary for the effective application of DBS to new clinical
areas. More »

Browse more Neural Engineering faculty profiles »

* * *

## Requirements

### Master of Science (MS)

To earn this certificate, students in the Master of Science (MS) degree
program complete the standard 30-credit curriculum, but with these neural-
engineering course options:

  * Life Science Course requirement:
    * Quantitative Pathophysiology, _or_
    * Physiology for Engineers

  * BME Courses requirement:
    * BME 601L Introduction to Neural Engineering, _and_
    * Three (3) Neural Engineering electives

#### Sample MS Curriculum

Fall 1 Spring 1 Fall 2  
  
BME 601L: Introduction to Neural Engineering

BME 520: Neural Signal Acquisition BME 590L: Biomedical Amplifiers and
Implanted Devices  
BME 671L: Signal Processing and Applied Mathematics BME 517: Neuronal Control
of Movement BME 512L: Theoretical Electrocardiography  
Life Science Requirement:  
Quantitative Pathophysiology  
 _or_  
Physiology for Engineers Advanced Math Elective BME 790: Advanced Design and
Prototyping Skills  
BME 547: Medical Software Design  
  
### Master of Engineering (MEng)

To earn this certificate, students in Master of Engineering (MEng) degree
program complete the standard 30-credit curriculum, but with these neural-
engineering course options:

  * Life Science Course requirement:
    * Quantitative Pathophysiology, _or_
    * Physiology for Engineers
  * BME Courses requirement:
    * BME 601L Introduction to Neural Engineering, _and_
    * Three (3) Neural Engineering electives

###### **A Note on BME 601L: Introduction to Neural Engineering**

For students who seek to place out of BME601L (and must take another Neural
Engineering elective in its place):

If you have a compelling case demonstrating that you have previously covered
the content in BME601L, including the laboratory experiences, then send an
email request to Professor Grill, as a single .pdf file withe the filename
“LASTNAME_FIRSTNAME_601.pdf” including a brief description of your rationale,
the syllabus(i) from the course(s) that you took, and the grade(s) you earned
in the course(s).

* * *

## Electives

### Neural Engineering Electives

  * BME 502 Neural Signal Acquisition (Viventi, Wolf, Sommer)
  * BME 503 Computational Neuroengineering (Henriquez, Grill McIntyre)
  * BME 504 Fundamentals of Electrical Stimulation of the Nervous System
    (Grill, McIntyre)
  * BME 511 Theoretical Electrophysiology (Barr, Henriquez)
  * BME 515 Neural Prosthetic Systems (Grill, McIntyre)
  * BME 517 Neuronal Control of Movement (Sommer, Grill)
  * BME 518L Modern Neuroscience Tools (Gong, Tadross)
  * BME 590 Synaptic Biology Synthetic Technology (Tadross)
  * BME 590 Deep Neural Networks of the Brain
  * BME 590L Biomedical Amplifiers and Implanted Devices (Viventi, Wolf)
  * BME 791 Independent Study - Must have clear neural engineering content
    focused and by advised by a BME faculty member; only one indepentend study
    course can be applied to the certificate

### Recommended Technical Electives

  * BME 506 Measurement and Control of Cardiac Electrical Events
  * BME 512L Theoretical Electrocardiography
  * BME 547 Medical Software Design
  * BME 788 Invention to Application: Health Care Research Commercialization
  * BME 790 Quality Management Systems for Engineers
  * BME 790 Advanced Design and Prototyping Skills
  * CEE 530 Introduction to the Finite Element Method
  * MATH 561 Scientific Computing I
  * MATH 577 Mathematical Modeling

* * *

## How to Apply

  1. Apply to a Duke BME master's degree program
  2. Satisfy the required program courses to receive the certificate.

Contact Duke Bme

Apply Now

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

