

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# $30 Million Gift to Advance Engineering and Science Education at Duke

June 3, 2014

Engineering graduate J. Michael Pearson and wife, Christine, make landmark
gift to support interdisciplinary education at Pratt School of Engineering

Duke University alumni J. Michael and Christine Pearson have committed $30
million to the Pratt School of Engineering to advance engineering and science
education across the university, President Richard H. Brodhead announced
Tuesday.

The Pearsons’ gift will support interdisciplinary programs, courses and
research at Pratt, including major initiatives in collaboration with Trinity
College of Arts & Sciences. It is the sixth largest single gift of Duke
Forward, the university’s $3.25 billion comprehensive fundraising campaign,
and among the three largest gifts ever given to the engineering school.

“This extraordinary gift from Mike and Christine Pearson will transform
interdisciplinary education and research at Duke,” Brodhead said. “We’re
grateful for their vision and commitment, which will enable Duke to reimagine
how training in the sciences, technology, engineering and math can be
integrated with, and enriched by, a liberal arts curriculum.”

Interest in undergraduate engineering at Duke is at an all-time high, with
applications to Pratt up 20 percent this year. At the same time, students in
majors outside STEM fields are signing up for more science and engineering
courses.

“Duke students have a unique opportunity to make a significant impact on the
world, and I’ve especially seen that happening through the growth of the
engineering school and its visionary leadership in preparing students to
address complex, real-world challenges facing our global society,” said
Michael Pearson, who was an engineering student at Duke. “Our gift is an
investment in the continued upward trajectory of Duke Engineering and the
brilliant minds it inspires.”

Duke has transformed its engineering education to prepare students with not
only the technical skills but the broad perspectives needed to address
critical global issues. The university has co-created programs such as the
National Academy of Engineering-endorsed Grand Challenges Scholars Program,
which is now being implemented at dozens of engineering schools nationwide.

Tom Katsouleas, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering, said the gift
couldn’t come at a better time. “Over the past five years Pratt has been one
of the fastest-rising engineering schools in the nation, and this landmark
gift will provide critical fuel for our continued ascent.”

“As an alumnus of Duke Engineering, Mike Pearson deeply understands the key
role engineers will play in solving some of the great societal challenges of
the 21st century—from making solar energy economical to engineering new
medicines to providing regular access to clean water for the billion people on
this planet who need it,” Katsouleas said.

Laurie L. Patton, dean of Trinity College of Arts & Sciences, said the gift
adds to a well-rounded curriculum for students pursuing a variety of subjects.

“Connecting all majors to scientific inquiry and discovery will result in a
creative life of the mind that will last well beyond Duke. Such integration
will also help to develop better-informed citizens, ethical stewards of
wealth, technology-literate consumers and wiser guardians of our environmental
future,” Patton said. “We’re grateful the Pearsons share our vision for
strengthening ties between engineering and science disciplines. The broader
partnership between Pratt and Arts & Sciences can only grow, given this
extraordinary beginning.”

Interdisciplinary collaboration is one of the priorities of the Duke Forward
campaign. In recent years, Duke has created joint certificate programs in
Innovation & Entrepreneurship, Energy & the Environment and Global Health. In
2013, the university also launched Bass Connections, a university-wide
initiative that links faculty and students to tackle real-world challenges
through project teams. Duke has seven signature interdisciplinary institutes
specializing in topics ranging from education and human development to the
brain sciences, and a number of research centers and joint programs.

Michael Pearson graduated from Duke in 1981 summa cum laude and Phi Beta
Kappa. He currently serves on the Fuqua School of Business Board of Visitors.
Christine Pearson is a 1984 graduate of Duke’s School of Nursing.

To date, the Pearsons are the fourth largest contributors to Duke Forward,
with cumulative gifts exceeding $50 million. Their other gifts include $15
million to the School of Nursing and $7.5 million to the Fuqua School of
Business.

Duke Forward is raising money to enrich the student experience, invest in
exceptional faculty, and support research and initiatives focused on training
leaders to address some of society’s biggest challenges. Contributions totaled
$2 billion in April 2014. Every dollar donated to Duke’s 10 schools and units,
Duke Medicine, or university programs and initiatives counts toward the
campaign’s $3.25 billion goal.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

