

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 3-D Printers Open New Design Space for Wireless Devices

May 4, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Conductive filaments and 3-D printers allow quick construction of
electromagnetic metamaterials

Researchers at Duke University have 3-D printed potent electromagnetic
metamaterials, using an electrically conductive material compatible with a
standard 3-D printer.

The demonstration could revolutionize the rapid design and prototyping of
radio frequency applications such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, wireless sensing and
communications devices.

Metamaterials are synthetic materials composed of many individual, engineered
devices called cells that together produce properties not found in nature. As
an electromagnetic wave moves through the metamaterial, each engineered cell
manipulates the wave in a specific way to dictate how the wave behaves as a
whole.

Metamaterials can be tailored to have unnatural properties such as bending
light backwards, focusing electromagnetic waves onto multiple areas and
perfectly absorbing specific wavelengths of light. But previous efforts have
been constrained to 2-D circuit boards, limiting their effectiveness and
abilities and making their fabrication difficult.

In a new paper appearing online in the journal Applied Physics Letters, Duke
materials scientists and chemists have shown a way to bring electromagnetic
metamaterials into the third dimension using common 3-D printers.

“There are a lot of complicated 3-D metamaterial structures that people have
imagined, designed and made in small numbers to prove they could work,” said
Steve Cummer, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke. “The
challenge in transitioning to these more complicated designs has been the
manufacturing process. With the ability to do this on a common 3-D printer,
anyone can build and test a potential prototype in a matter of hours with
relatively little cost.”

The key to making 3-D printed electromagnetic metamaterials a reality was
finding the right conductive material to run through a commercial 3-D printer.
Such printers usually use plastics, which are typically terrible at conducting
electricity.

While there are a few commercially available solutions that mix metals in with
the plastics, none are conductive enough to create viable electromagnetic
metamaterials. While metal 3-D printers do exist, they cost as much as $1
million and take up an entire room.

That’s where Benjamin Wiley, Duke associate professor of chemistry, came in.

“Our group is really good at making conductive materials,” said Wiley, who has
been exploring these materials for nearly a decade. “We saw this gap and
realized there was a huge unexplored space to be filled and thought we had the
experience and knowledge to give it a shot.”

Wiley and Shengrong Ye, a postdoctoral researcher in his group, created a 3-D
printable material that is 100 times more conductive than anything currently
on the market. The material is currently being sold under the brand name
Electrifi by Multi3D LLC, a startup founded by Wiley and Ye. While still not
nearly as conductive as regular copper, Cummer thought that it might just be
conductive enough to create a 3-D printed electromagnetic metamaterial.

In the paper, Cummer and doctoral student Abel Yangbo Xie show that not only
is Electrifi conductive enough, it interacts with radio waves almost as
strongly as traditional metamaterials made with pure copper. That small
difference is easily made up for by the printed metamaterials’ 3-D geometry --
the results show that the 3-D printed metamaterial cubes interact with
electromagnetic waves 14 times better than their 2-D counterparts.

By printing numerous cubes, each tailored to specifically interact with an
electromagnetic wave in a certain way, and combining them like Lego building
blocks, researchers can begin to build new devices. For the devices to work,
however, the electromagnetic waves must be roughly the same size as the
individual blocks. While this rules out the visible spectrum, infrared and
X-rays, it leaves open a wide design space in radio waves and microwaves.

“We’re now starting to get more aggressive with our metamaterial designs to
see how much complexity we can build and how much that might improve
performance,” said Cummer. “Many previous designs were complicated to make in
large samples. You could do it for a scientific paper once just to show it
worked, but you’d never want to do it again. This makes it a lot easier.
Everything is on the table now.”

“We think this could change how the radio frequency industry prototypes new
devices in the same way that 3-D printers changed plastic-based designs,” said
Wiley. “When you can hand off your designs to other people or exactly copy
what somebody else has done in a matter of hours, that really speeds up the
design process.”

This work was supported by a Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative
grant from the Office of Naval Research (N00014-13-1-0631).

Microwave Metamaterials Made by Fused Deposition 3D Printing of a Highly
Conductive Copper-based Filament. Yangbo Xie, Shengrong Ye, Christopher Reyes,
Pariya Sithikong, Bogdan Popa, Benjamin J. Wiley, and Steven A. Cummer.
Applied Physics Letters, 2017. DOI: 10.1063/1.4982718

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

