

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# $8 Million Grant Aims to Better Understand Disease Mechanisms of
Schizophrenia

May 6, 2021 | Alissa Kocer

The NIH grant seeks to uncover more clues into what genes increase the risk of
developing schizophrenia

View the original article on the Duke Center for Genomic and Computational
Biology's website.

Greg Crawford, Charlie Gersbach, Tim Reddy and Raluca Gordân have teamed up
with Patrick Sullivan, Yun Li, Michael Love, and Paola Giusti-Rodriguez at UNC
Chapel Hill and Flora Vaccarino at Yale University to narrow down areas of the
genome previously marked relevant to schizophrenia risk.

“Schizophrenia is incredibly complex at every level,” Sullivan said, “from DNA
to its clinical manifestations.”

Previous genetic studies –some piloted by Sullivan – have narrowed down the
search space. Using samples from 25,000 patients who had schizophrenia and
97,000 samples from those who didn’t, researchers discovered 270 different
regions of interest in the genome. These regions vary in size, but each on
average span hundreds of thousands of base pairs.

“But there’s still a lot we don’t know,” Crawford added. “We don’t know that
within each of these regions, which are the most important parts that confer
schizophrenia risk, and what the target genes are.” Other mysteries include
how genetic differences manifest themselves, and if all or some of those 270
regions are working together.

With this grant, the team will work to narrow down each of those 270 regions
to their most important parts. One tactic they will use is high throughput
CRISPR screens to silence and/or activate any region of interest in the genome
to see which subregions respond and how. This builds upon nearly 10 years of
research between Gersbach and Crawford who have previously collaborated to use
CRISPR to regulate human genes in their natural position genome, perturb
distal gene regulatory elements in non-coding regions, and scale their efforts
up to high throughput screening of hundreds of elements on single genes.

“Now we are continuing to expand the scale and scope of this work,” Gersbach
said, “by assessing thousands of elements on hundreds of genes and applying
that to decipher complex disease mechanisms that were previously intractable
with a focus on schizophrenia.”

The team will also take those important regions and use stem cells derived
from individuals both with and without schizophrenia and make brain organoids
– cells in a dish that recapitulate different cells in the brain – and conduct
experiments to see what happens if they silence specific regions of the
genome.

Through these efforts, they hope to better understand the basic “parts list”
for schizophrenia with greater rigor and certainty than ever before. “We
aren’t going to solve everything,” Crawford said, “but we will be able to get
a better understanding of what’s going on in each of those 270 regions.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

