

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Aaron Franklin: Replacing Silicon Electronics with Nanomaterials

September 12, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Carbon nanotubes and other nanomaterials offer the potential to replace
silicon, push the physical limits of electronics and develop printable
technologies

Aaron Franklin has joined the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering in Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering, with a joint
appointment in the Department of Chemistry. Leaving IBM’s research enterprise
for academia, Franklin will continue his research into semiconducting
nanomaterials and printed electronics.

As silicon electronics approach their physical limits for density and speed,
researchers are seeking materials to revolutionize the industry and continue
the vast improvements in performance seen throughout the past four decades.
Carbon nanotubes are an example of a potential replacement, as they are one of
the best semiconductors known to science.

There is, however, a catch.

“Carbon nanotubes are extremely difficult to work with,” said Franklin, who
has spent the past six years studying the material at IBM. “My group’s
research will focus on developing nanomaterials that are faster and better
than silicon. We’ll also be focusing on printed electronics, where the goal is
less about improving performance and more aimed toward creating unique
functions and applications.”

Printed electronics hold great potential, according to Franklin. For example,
sensors could be printed onto plastic produce bags to keep track of the
surrounding temperature. Or circuits could be integrated within clothing to
create fashionable heart rate monitors or cell-phone-charging pants.

To work toward these goals, Franklin has brought two important pieces of
machinery to Duke. A new printer in his laboratory uses gases to focus and dry
minute amounts of carbon-nanotube-laced inks on a variety of surfaces. Also, a
new large deposition machine will allow many researchers to work with
potential silicon transistor replacements in the Shared Materials
Instrumentation Facility—one of the reasons Franklin chose to join Duke’s
faculty.

“It’s a big draw,” said Franklin, who earned his undergraduate degree at
Arizona State University before pursuing graduate work at Purdue University.
“In the past 10 years, Duke has done a great job leveraging its engineering
reputation with facilities, infrastructure and faculty recruits that make for
the type of environment you need to succeed in nanoelectronics.

“I also saw how well-aligned the interests of the faculty and the capabilities
of the infrastructure were to the type of program I want to build,” continued
Franklin. “The atmosphere here is very collegial and collaborative. Every
university will say that, but the feeling at Duke is palpable. That made a
huge difference to me.”

Franklin always planned to pursue his research interests in academia, but was
recruited by IBM out of graduate school—an opportunity he could not pass by.
After the two years he planned to stay at IBM turned into six, the itch to
teach came back when Columbia University offered him the opportunity to
develop and teach a class as an adjunct professor.

While teaching at Columbia, Franklin discovered the depth of his interest to
transition to the academic teaching and research environment. Remembering the
time he spent at Duke one summer during graduate school while participating in
Duke’s Talent Identification Program, he decided to explore his options. Now,
he is teaching the same emerging nanoelectronic devices class he developed at
Columbia at Duke.

And he’ll be bringing his corporate experience with him.

“The way you think about research goals and design experiments is definitely
honed by being in the corporate research environment,” said Franklin, who
holds associate professorships in both engineering and chemistry. “You want
academic research to be more explorative, but you also want to know how to
align long-term goals with the way the industry works. Being with IBM
certainly taught me that.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

