

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Acquisition of Spin-Out Company Bioptigen to Bring Duke Imaging Technology
to New Markets

August 3, 2015 | By Whitney L.J. Howell

In June 2015, microscopy and imaging systems company Leica Microsystems
acquired Bioptigen, Inc., a company born from the Duke University Pratt School
of Engineering.

_Originally published by Duke Innovation and Entrepreneurship_

Formed in 2004, Bioptigen has become a leader in optical coherence tomography
(OCT), an imaging technique that uses light to capture extremely high-
resolution, three-dimensional pictures of the eye.

Bioptigen was the brainchild of Duke’s Michael J. Fitzpatrick Professor of
Engineering Joseph Izatt, Ph.D., and CEO Eric Buckland, Ph.D. Since its
launch, the company secured more than 60 issued patents in OCT technology,
many of which were licensed from intellectual property developed by Izatt, his
students, and collaborators at Duke and Case Western Reserve University.

The Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative spoke with Izatt about the
acquisition.

**Q: How was Bioptigen formed?**

A: The origins of Bioptigen were in the early 2000s, at a time when Duke and
especially the Pratt School of Engineering were encouraging faculty to be
entrepreneurial. I came to Duke in 2001 from the biomedical engineering
faculty at Case Western University, attracted by Duke’s outstanding BME
department and the opportunity to collaborate with leading ophthalmologists at
the Duke Eye Center. When I arrived, I had been leading a university research
group for several years and was becoming more interested in entrepreneurship.
I had been involved in the early development of optical coherence tomography
(OCT) in the early 1990s, and by the time I came to Duke a decade later, it
had become a commonplace diagnostic technology in ophthalmology. Over the next
few years, my lab at Duke was able to contribute to a revolution in the
technology underlying OCT which made it many times more sensitive and much
faster at acquiring images in patients. Around this time, I was approached by
Eric Buckland, an optics Ph.D. and veteran executive from the optical
communications industry who was looking to start a high-tech company in North
Carolina. Duke helped us with incubator space, and that was the beginning of
Bioptigen. It formed in 2004 around the development of high-performance OCT
imaging equipment. Today, OCT has become the dominant imaging technology in
ophthalmology.

**Q: How does OCT diagnose eye disease?**

A: OCT produces 2-D and 3-D images of tissue with a resolution scale many
times finer than other medical imaging modalities such as ultrasound, computed
tomography, or magnetic resonance imaging. It provides in-depth, cross-
sectional images of tissue with a resolution of about 10 micrometers – smaller
than the width of a human hair. By 2003, using the new fast imaging
technology, we were able to obtain these cross-sectional images live at video
rate – essentially movies taken inside of living tissue. That was a big
advance over the prior technology, which took several seconds per image. By
taking these movies while also scanning the light in the third dimension
across the tissue, we could acquire three dimensional blocks of data which
doctors could explore in detail later using special software. Most optical
images people are familiar with are images of the surface of things — with
conventional ophthalmoscopes, for example, doctors look at the surface of the
retina through a special microscope. OCT allows you to go from surface imaging
to cross-sectional or volumetric imaging, and with much greater resolution.
That’s really important because many diseases that cause blindness are quite
subtle to diagnose accurately with conventional instruments, requiring many
years of training. The retina is a layer of neuronal tissue spread out over
the back of the eyeball which is only a half-millimeter thick, and telling the
difference between various kinds of injuries, detachments, and the effects of
blinding diseases such as macular degeneration or diabetic retinopathy can be
challenging. OCT is a major advance in the speed and ease of diagnosing these
problems, and just as importantly in monitoring their successful treatment.

These advances are a key reason why OCT has become a multi-billion dollar
industry worldwide. Today, if you go to an eye clinic in the developed world
with a serious vision problem, you will very likely be imaged with OCT. And so
there have been many start-ups in this area in addition to Bioptigen and
traditional ophthalmic instrument companies. Taken together, there are now
more than two dozen companies developing or marketing OCT devices.

**Q: How did Bioptigen progress as a company and move its technology
forward?**

A: Bioptigen was founded in 2004 and early on was primarily angel-funded, much
of it by investors in the Southeast. Hiring highly talented engineers enabled
Bioptigen to develop thebest performing instruments with the added ability to
show the images to physicians in real-time – that’s a real distinction which
characterized Bioptigen’s technology. And I can’t give enough credit to our
founding CEO Eric Buckland, who poured his heart and soul into the company,
hired and managed outstanding staff, and personally willed the company through
the ups and downs of a startup in a turbulent economic decade.

One of Bioptigen’s first products to go to market was a table-top instrument
for retinal imaging–one of the first instruments using the new fast imaging
technology to receive clearance from the Food & Drug Administration. Previous
OCT instruments were not optimized for speed, and in many cases if a doctor
ordered a test, the imaging would be done by a technician and the doctor
wouldn’t see the resulting images until much later. Bioptigen’s key strategy
was to develop technologies to obtain the highest quality images and to do it
in real time, so that doctors themselves could operate the instrument while
interacting with patients and see the images right away.

Bioptigen’s first product which made really successful use of its real-time
imaging capability was the industry’s first commercial handheld OCT device. A
doctor can hold this device over the patient’s eye and the images appear
simultaneously on a screen so the doctor can tell right away whether he or she
is collecting the right images correctly. It’s particularly helpful with
patients who aren’t easy to accommodate with previous table-top technologies,
such as children, babies or bed-ridden patients.

**Q: How is Bioptigen technology being used?**

A: There were two principal applications Bioptigen developed for its handheld
OCT technology. The first was pioneered by Dr. Cynthia Toth, the Joseph A.C.
Wadsworth Professor of Ophthalmology here at Duke with whom I have
collaborated for over 15 years. She recognized the potential for handheld
imaging of babies and children. Babies squirm and cry, so imaging them takes
quite a bit of skill. Dr. Toth introduced the concept of using the handheld
OCT device in the pediatric arena, and used it in a landmark study in
premature babies to discover fundamental new knowledge about how the retina
develops before and even after birth. Dr. Toth now runs a course for pediatric
ophthalmologists who come to Duke from around the world for them to learn from
her team how to do these examinations.

The second major market for Bioptigen handheld OCT was in pre-clinical imaging
– animal imaging. No other OCT company had taken that market seriously, but
with the development of Bioptigen’s handheld device, research labs could use
state-of-the-art ophthalmic imaging technology on mice, rats, and other
important research animals for the first time. This was really quite
successful for Bioptigen, and remains important to advance our fundamental
understanding of disease and to test treatment protocols.

**Q: What aspects of Bioptigen enticed Leica?**

A: Following development of the handheld OCT device, the next major technology
thrust for Bioptigen which ultimately resulted in its acquisition was in
intra-operative OCT during ophthalmic surgery. This application of OCT had a
lot of motivation from fundamental research at Duke. Dr. Toth is an
internationally recognized retinal surgeon, and since 2009 she and I have led
a Duke team funded by the National Institutes of Health to investigate the use
of real-time OCT to guide surgery of the retina and cornea. Partially
motivated by our findings as well as other interactions, Bioptigen decided to
put a major effort into developing a commercial surgical OCT system. In
ophthalmic surgery, the patient lies face-up on an operating table and the
surgeon operates on the eyeball using various instruments, while looking
through a microscope suspended above the patient. This is true micro-surgery,
where highly trained surgeons must separate, cut, peel and otherwise
manipulate some of the most delicate tissues in the body with micrometer scale
precision. Presently, surgeons must often do all of this with a less than
ideal view of the tissues they are operating on, if the patient suffers from
cataract, cloudy cornea or other common conditions which can limit their view.
With a real-time OCT scanner built right into the microscope, however,
surgeons can view their surgery directly, in cross section with high OCT
resolution, in a system which is much less sensitive to intervening tissue
clarity. Bioptigen committed its limited resources to develop and
commercialize this technology well before it was obvious the application would
pan out, and in retrospect it was a good decision. Several companies are now
competing to integrate OCT into their ophthalmic surgical microscopes.

Leica is a historic European optical instrument brand which has sold cameras,
lenses, and microscopes for over 150 years. Leica Microsystems, the operating
company which acquired Bioptigen, is a major supplier of top quality research
and surgical microscope systems. They acquired Bioptigen in order to
incorporate its proven real-time OCT technology into their surgical microscope
product line.

**Q: What role or roles did Duke play in getting Bioptigen to this point and
supporting your efforts?**

A: Over its history, Bioptigen licensed over two dozen patents from Duke.
These arose from research in my laboratory done by myself and many students,
post-docs, and collaborators. Bioptigen also developed a very substantial
patent portfolio on its own, the extent of which was a key component of its
attractiveness for acquisition. I was a co-founder of the company and served
as Board Chairman. For the first couple of years, when we had just a handful
of employees, I served as CTO and was involved in product and IP development.
Before long, however, Bioptigen was able to hire truly outstanding engineers
from both the local research triangle region and nationally, and my position
become more advisory. In 2011, I switched to become Chief Science Advisor, and
then recently resigned when Leica acquired Bioptigen. Throughout this start-up
experience, Duke’s policies on faculty outside activities, conflicts of
interest, and inventions, patents, and technology transfer were instrumental
in enabling my constructive involvement in Bioptigen while maintaining my
professional responsibilities as a faculty member.

The Duke Office of Licensing and Ventures (OLV) deserves credit for managing
my laboratory’s substantial patent portfolio and putting considerable effort
into negotiating and administrating licensing deals appropriate for a start-up
company. Duke had to take a chance on each of our patents, and to be flexible
in dealing with a small entity.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

