

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Addressing Climate Change with Energy Materials

August 10, 2021 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Duke engineers and materials scientists are discovering and designing new
materials to meet energy demands for a more sustainable future

A

lternative and sustainable sources of energy are crucial to the future health,
safety and welfare of society. Researchers in Duke University’s Thomas Lord
Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science are meeting the
challenge of finding and deploying novel energy sources and by developing
materials that have the potential to power our future.

They are uncovering the mysteries of harnessing and transmitting heat, light
and electricity by investigating materials’ atomic structures and the
behaviors of subatomic particles and using those insights to design materials
with specific properties for a host of applications. Their work is advancing
development of solar energy, longer-lasting rechargeable batteries, capture of
waste heat from power plants and automobile exhaust, new semiconductors and
even cooling textiles for personal comfort.

Read more about what Duke MEMS faculty are doing to fuel a more sustainable
future:

## David Mitzi

Making Energy Materials More Effective and Cost-Efficient by Discovering New
Properties and How They Relate to Underlying Atomic Structures

_Simon Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

D

avid Mitzi develops new, sustainable materials for energy and optoelectronic
applications including solar cells and water-splitting, as well as spintronic
(using flow of an electrons’ spin rather than charge) and light-emitting
devices. His group investigates two materials classes for use in such
devices–halide-based perovskites and complex chalcogenide semiconductors–which
both hold the potential for low-cost next-generation devices. Within each of
these areas, Mitzi’s group works to design novel materials, as well as to
understand the fundamental chemical, structural, optical and electronic
properties underlying the semiconductors. They also develop film/crystal
growth techniques and build device structures around the new materials to
achieve outstanding device performance.

Mitzi is one of 16 researchers, along with Duke colleagues Volker Blum and
Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, collaborating in the Center for Hybrid Organic-
Inorganic Semiconductors (HOIS) for Energy funded by the U.S. Department of
Energy. He and Stiff-Roberts co-lead the center’s focus area dedicated to
design and synthesis of perovskites, a specific class of HOIS, which hold
great promise for light-, charge- and spin-based applications and new types of
solar cells because of their crystalline structure.

Mitzi and Blum are also collaborating on a National Science Foundation (NSF)
“Designing Materials to Revolutionize and Engineer our Future” (DMREF) grant
with teams of researchers at the University of North Carolina and North
Carolina State University. They are working to identify new hybrid organic-
inorganic perovskites (HOIPs) and accelerate development of this materials
space among the wider community of researchers through the curated open
HybriD3 database of experimental and computational materials data.

Mitzi is leading a new NSF-funded project in collaboration with researchers at
the University of Colorado to extend beyond current approaches in HOIP
research, which focus on the ordered patterns of their crystalline structures.
Instead, they will investigate and demonstrate how controllable disorder—for
example, glass-like structure—can be introduced to expand the range of
properties and applications for the HOIP family.

Prior to joining the faculty at Duke in 2014, Mitzi spent 23 years at IBM’s
T.J. Watson Research Center, where he focused on the search for and
application of new electronic materials, including organic-inorganic
perovskites and inorganic materials for photovoltaic, LED, transistor and
memory applications.

He is a Fellow of the Materials Research Society (MRS) and has authored or
coauthored more than 200 papers and book chapters and holds more than 40
patents. Clarivate Analytics designated him among the world’s most highly
cited researchers from 2018-2020. In 2020, his peers in the American Chemical
Society recognized his work with the National Award in the Chemistry of
Materials.

> “We enjoy exploring the connection between crystal structure and
> physical/chemical properties and use this knowledge to design and create new
> highly functional materials for energy and electronic applications.”

## Olivier Delaire

Discovering Atomic Properties of Materials to Address Specific Energy Needs

_Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

F

ocusing on problems at the intersection of materials science, physics and
chemistry, Olivier Delaire and his group investigate atomic-level processes
underlying energy transfers and thermodynamics in energy materials. His
fundamental research points the way to developing future materials with
improved properties to address energy needs.

For example, his extensive studies have probed atomic vibrations, known as
phonons, within crystals and endeavored to understand microscopic origins of
heat and ion transport in a wide range of energy materials.

His recent research has revealed the peculiar atomic dynamics that provide
desirable properties for solar energy and heat energy applications to an
exciting class of materials called halide perovskites. He found that these
materials exhibit an excellent flexibility and tolerance to defects by the way
their atomic lattice twists and turns in a hinge-like fashion. This molecular
hinge allows a sort of “floppiness” that keeps electrons knocked free by
sunlight available for use and makes it difficult for heat to travel through
the structure. These results should help materials scientists tailor their
chemical recipes for a wide range of applications in an environmentally
friendly way.

In other recent work he and collaborators at Michigan State University gained
insight into two magnesium-based materials that can outperform traditional
compositions of thermoelectric generators, which turn heat into electricity or
vice versa. These materials would also be more environmentally friendly and
less costly to manufacture. These findings may indicate new pathways for
improving thermoelectric generators used in power plants, automobiles,
refrigeration and even future space missions to Mars and beyond.

The new understanding of atomic dynamics from his research is also key in his
group’s ongoing investigations of ionic diffusion for safer and longer-lasting
rechargeable batteries. By understanding how crystal lattices bend and
vibrate, engineers can better design so-called superionic conductors, which
allow fast diffusion of ions for next-generation solid-state batteries with no
flammable components.

Delaire recently won an NSF-funded DMREF grant to lead a team in developing an
integrated computational and experimental framework for gaining insight into
the atomic-scale mechanisms controlling superionic behavior with collaborators
at North Carolina State, Harvard and Michigan State Universities.

His research group uses advanced experimental and computational approaches,
including neutron and X-ray scattering studies at the U.S. Department of
Energy’s Oak Ridge and Argonne National Laboratories and supercomputer
simulations at the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center. Prior
to joining Duke, Delaire was a staff scientist at the Oak Ridge National
Laboratory.

> _“We explore how the atomic-scale behavior of materials can enable big
> changes in our energy future. Duke is a perfect place to conduct exciting
> basic research with high-tech payoffs. We benefit from tremendous
> collaborations across Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and its Trinity
> College of Arts & Sciences, the nearby Research Triangle Park and talented
> students passionate about building a more sustainable world.”_

## Po-Chun Hsu

Developing New Textiles to Manage Light and Heat for Energy Applications

_Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

P

o-Chun Hsu’s research group develops innovative textile materials for light
and heat management. Working at the nanoscale, he tailors these materials to
either transmit, block or absorb thermal radiation to address specific
engineering challenges.

For example, he has addressed the challenge of lowering energy consumption and
the cost of heating and cooling buildings by designing cooling textiles to
lower wearers’ thermal radiation so that they can tolerate higher air
conditioning settings.

Attacking the problem from another angle, he has developed a dual-mode heating
and cooling device for building climate control that, if widely deployed in
the U.S., could cut HVAC energy use by nearly 20%. The invention uses a
combination of mechanics and materials science to either harness or expel
certain wavelengths of light, depending on the need.

Hsu joined Duke MEMS in 2019 with a passion for finding creative solutions for
sustainable energy and to combat the effects of climate change. His work is
highly interdisciplinary and informed by knowledge in mechanical engineering
and materials science, thermodynamics, chemistry and photonics.

Currently Hsu and his group have several projects in the pipeline under the
theme of light- and heat-managing materials. For instance, they are developing
a dual-mode wearable device that only needs one coin cell battery to provide
week-long personalized thermal comfort whether the temperature is cold or hot.

> _"The pressing need to reduce our carbon footprint is an important driving
> force, but I find that tackling a lot of 'what if' questions from the aspect
> of fundamental science is truly the fun part."_

Read more about how Duke researchers are using computational and artificial
intelligence methods to develop new energy materials.

Also, meet additional Duke faculty working on new energy systems and
materials.

## Related News

February 26, 2021

### Writing New Recipes for High-Performance Materials

October 13, 2020

### Chiral Ingredients Split Electron Spins in Hybrid Semiconductors

August 21, 2018

### Duke Engineers Join National Center on Emerging Energy Materials

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

