

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

#  Aeroelasticity at Duke: Why Fear Flutter?

August 19, 2013

Pratt aeroelasticity studies range from “heavenly” to “hellish”

_Originally published in in "Leading Research — Duke Engineering 2012"_

The great aerospace engineer, Theodore Von Karman, has been quoted as saying
that those who do not understand flutter fear it, and those who do understand
it know why it should be feared. From the earliest days of flight to the
present, the possibility of dangerous and destructive oscillations has been a
source of great concern to those who build and fly aircraft and spacecraft.

In outer space, a gossamer solar sail as big as a football field speeds along,
propelled only by the gentle pressure of sunlight. On earth, a jet engine revs
up for takeoff, its turbine blades enduring forces 50,000 times gravity, its
interior reaching thousand-degree temperatures and blasted by corrosive
flaming fuel.

Both these machines—the heavenly solar sail and the hellish turbine—present
complex research challenges in “aeroelasticity” being tackled by three Pratt
school experts. Aerospace engineers Earl Dowell, Kenneth Hall, and Robert
Kielb have spent decades developing methods to analyze aero- elastic forces.
Engine designers and aerospace engineers are using their insights to design
machines as disparate as solar sails and the turbines that power just about
all electric generating plants, airplanes, and windmills.

The solar sail being designed by NASA is among the most exotic of these
devices. Such solar sails are attractive for spacecraft propulsion because
they carry no conventional fuel, using only the pressure of sunlight to propel
them. In their work, Dowell and graduate student Chad Gibbs, along with
colleagues at NASA Langley Research Center, are analyzing a potential
oscillation in what Dowell has dubbed the field of “solarelasticity.”

“This is a kilometer-sized sail, and because solar pressure is very small, the
material has to be very thin,” says Dowell. “But if you make it thin and you
make it very flexible, the same solar pressure that moves it along is also
large enough to induce oscillations; and these oscillations are analogous to
what happens due to the fluid forces in more conventional craft.”

At the other extreme of spacecraft engineering Dowell and his graduate
student, Ben Goldman, are helping analyze the aeroelastic performance of a new
form of reentry vehicle called HIAD (hypersonic inflatable aerodynamic
decelerator). HIAD describes an assembly of high-strength inflatable bladders,
like a stack of inner tubes, meant to protect and slow down a spacecraft from
the searing 3,000-degree Fahrenheit temperatures during reentry to the earth
or other planets.

Dowell’s latest aircraft project is just as exotic—a giant solar-powered
airplane called Vulture, designed to cruise slowly at high altitudes for years
at a time. The unmanned airplane being developed by Boeing for DARPA could
circle above areas of interest much longer than drones, carrying a payload of
high-resolution cameras.

With its 400-foot wingspan, twice that of a Boeing 747, the lightweight
Vulture could be highly vulnerable to wind gusts, so Dowell and his colleague,
Deman Tang, and his students are analyzing such wing behavior in wind tunnel
testing and computational studies.

Dowell and his graduate student Ivan Wang are also working on the aeroelastic
problems presented by so-called “morphing” wings—which fold into different
shapes to adapt to different flying conditions. Like a bird’s wing, they could
yield much greater efficiency over the broad range of speeds at which aircraft
operate. However, with this morph- ing advantage come complex problems of
flutter and other phenomena that need to be solved before airplanes can fly
more like birds.

Finally, the flutter of high performance aircraft such as the F-16 and F-35
are still challenges to aeroelastician Jeff Thomas and graduate student Madhu
Padmanabhan who are working with Dowell and the Air Force to address. Mike
Balajewicz is completing his Ph.D. studies of turbulence and a novel method of
constructing models for this complex nonlinear dynamical system that has drawn
the attention over many years of investigators including such luminaries as
Werner Heisenberg, G.I. Taylor and Theodore Von Karman.

While flutter is a problem in aircraft wings, it is absolutely necessary for a
very different aeroelastic research challenge—a “nonlinear aeroeleastic energy
harvesting” system that Dowell is helping develop, along with former
undergraduate Jared Dunnmon, who is now a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, and Gibbs.
This wind energy approach uses a flexible airfoil designed to oscillate in the
wind, with the oscillation energy converted to electricity by piezoelectric
material connected to it.

“This system has some real attraction because you don’t have to worry about
tuning the system’s natural frequency to the wind as do so-called resonant
systems” says Dowell. “You just need to ex- ceed a certain wind speed. And
that speed can be very low.” While the wind-harvesting system won’t offer the
high output of conventional windmills, says Dowell, it would be useful for
low-power applications in remote areas.

Dowell’s latest research advances represent only the latest in a long line of
achievements that have earned him the major awards in his field, including the
Daniel Guggenheim Medal Award of multiple professional societies, the Den
Hartog Award of the American Society of Mechanical Engineering, the Spirit of
St. Louis Award of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the
Distinguished Service Award of the American Academy of Mechanics, as well as
membership in the National Academy of Engineering and Honorary Fellow of the
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

