

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke to Lead $5 Million Center to Develop U.S. Air Force Wireless
Communications Protocols

October 20, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

National initiative will develop AI-informed communication and networking
protocols fast and reliable enough to handle Air Force requirements

Researchers at Duke University will work with colleagues across the nation to
ensure that future communication protocols used by the United States Air Force
are suitable for handling the most data-heavy tasks imaginable, such as flying
UAVs, and secure from adversarial attack.

Led by Robert Calderbank, the Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of
Computer Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Mathematics, and
director of the Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke, and Vahid Tarokh, the
Rhodes Family Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, the new five-
year, $5 million program is called the Air Force Research Laboratory/Air Force
Office of Scientific Research (AFRL/AFOSR) University Center of Excellence:
Agile Waveform Design for Communication Networks in Contested Environments.
The new center also draws in research expertise from Virginia Tech, Princeton
University, Carnegie Mellon University, Colorado State University and Arizona
State University.

“This center will develop methodologies for novel waveform design and
optimization techniques that are both agile to changing network dynamics and
robust to adversaries in contested environments, with provable bounds on
performance,” said Lauren Huie, Air Force Research Laboratory, Information
Directorate (AFRL/RI), Tech Advisor for the Computing & Communication
Division. “The innovative techniques of this approach are poised to re-
envision this area and intertwine this exceptional university team and AFRL/RI
scientists and engineers to pave the future of waveform design for
communication networks.”

Protocols are to communication what programming languages are to computation;
they are a set of well-defined rules and formats that allow information to be
transmitted between devices. As wireless communication channels become more
bandwidth efficient, these protocols become more complex. For example, they
may employ geographic and topographic information, be robust to interference
from buildings and other signals, and know how fix or replace errors that
occur along the way.

While this task is difficult enough in commercial applications such as for the
latest generation of smartphones and laptops, it’s even harder for devices and
machines used by the Air Force. Besides the regular background noise caused by
local terrain and competing signals, communication streams must also withstand
adversarial attacks. And the demands put on communication networks by UAVs are
much higher than that of a typical smartphone.

The Air Force does not, however, want to completely reinvent the wheel. It is
desirable that the protocols controlling the transfer of communication on
their devices work with existing commercial off-the-shelf applications. But
because their data streams are more volatile, changing more rapidly than
commercial networks and subject to adversarial attack, commercial protocols
are not readily up to the task.

The new AFRL/AFOSR University Center of Excellence will develop the
fundamental research necessary to design and operate protocols that can meet
the Air Force’s needs working with existing solutions. By creating new
software that integrates machine learning methods, researchers will develop
new waveforms that support low latency communication while providing
robustness to adversaries in contested environments.

“Our approach departs from traditional methods that use mathematical models
that describe the transmission process, signal propagation, receiver noise,
network traffic and many other components of the system that affect end-to-end
performance,” said Calderbank, who also holds appointments in electrical and
computer engineering, mathematics, and physics. “Traditional methods still
have value, but they are losing ground as wireless links become more variable,
and system components become harder to model. We will retain that value by
developing machine learning algorithms that are inspired by and based on
traditional optimization methods.”

“Duke has a depth of knowledge and experience that comes from a long history
of working with machine learning methods that have revolutionized speech and
image processing,” added Tarokh, who also holds appointments in computer
science and mathematics. “These same methods will be the foundation of the new
networks and protocols that will allow the Air Force to secure its wireless
communication needs of the future.”

The project will deepen existing collaborations between the universities
involved and the AFRL/RI. By tackling this new challenge, the researchers will
increase the capabilities, knowledge, skills and expertise of the AFRL
workforce, while giving its staff opportunities to work with a large pipeline
of talented students through programs like Data+ and Code+, both ten-week
summer research experiences that pair mixed teams of Duke undergraduate and
graduate students with real-life data sets and problems from partnering
companies.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

