

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# AI Pinpoints Local Pollution Hotspots Using Satellite Images

April 15, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Technique could find sources of heavy air pollution and allow researchers to
better study its effects on human health and make socially just policy
decisions

Researchers at Duke University have developed a method that uses machine
learning, satellite imagery and weather data to autonomously find hotspots of
heavy air pollution, city block by city block.

The technique could be a boon for finding and mitigating sources of hazardous
aerosols, studying the effects of air pollution on human health, and making
better informed, socially just public policy decisions.

“Before now, researchers trying to measure the distribution of air pollutants
throughout a city would either try to use the limited number of existing
monitors or drive sensors around a city in vehicles,” said Mike Bergin,
professor of civil and environmental engineering at Duke. “But setting up
sensor networks is time-consuming and costly, and the only thing that driving
a sensor around really tells you is that roads are big sources of pollutants.
Being able to find local hotspots of air pollution using satellite images is
hugely advantageous.”

> “It’s a big advantage to be able to find a specific neighborhood that tends
> to stay higher or lower than everywhere else, because it can help us answer
> questions about health disparities and environmental fairness.”
>
> \- David carlson

The specific air pollutants that Bergin and his colleagues are interested in
are tiny airborne particles called PM2.5. These are particles that have a
diameter of less than 2.5 micrometers — about three percent of the diameter of
a human hair — and have been shown to have a dramatic effect on human health
because of their ability to travel deep into the lungs.

The Global Burden of Disease study ranked PM2.5 fifth on its list of mortality
risk factors in 2015. The study indicated that PM2.5 was responsible in one
year for about 4.2 million deaths and 103.1 million years of life lost or
lived with disability. A recent study from the Harvard University T.H. Chan
School of Public Health also found that areas with higher PM2.5 levels are
associated with higher death rates due to COVID-19.

But the Harvard researchers could only access PM2.5 data on a county-by-county
level within the United States. While a valuable starting point, county-level
pollution statistics can’t drill down to a neighborhood next to a coal-fired
power plant versus one next to a park that is 30 miles upwind. And most
countries outside of the Western world don’t have that level of air quality
monitoring.

“Ground stations are expensive to build and maintain, so even large cities
aren’t likely to have more than a handful of them,” said Bergin. “So while
they might give a general idea of the amount of PM2.5 in the air, they don’t
come anywhere near giving a true distribution for the people living in
different areas throughout that city.”

In previous work with doctoral student Tongshu Zheng and colleague David
Carlson, assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering at Duke,
the researchers showed that satellite imagery, weather data and machine
learning could provide PM2.5 measurements on a small scale.

Building off that work and focusing on Delhi, the team has now improved their
methods and taught the algorithm to automatically find hotspots and cool spots
of air pollution with a resolution of 300 meters — about the length of a New
York City block.

The advancement was made by using a technique called residual learning. The
algorithm first estimates the levels of PM2.5 using weather data alone. It
then measures the difference between these estimates and the actual levels of
PM2.5 and teaches itself to use satellite images to make its predictions
better.

“When predictions are made first with the weather, and then satellite data is
added later to fine-tune them, it allows the algorithm to take full advantage
of the information in satellite imagery,” said Zheng.

> “The next step is to see how these hotspots are related to socioeconomic
> status and hospital admittance rates from long-term exposures. I think this
> approach could take us really far and the potential applications are just
> amazing.”
>
> \- Mike Bergin

The researchers then used an algorithm initially designed to adjust uneven
illumination in an image to find areas of high and low levels of air
pollution. Called local contrast normalization, the technique essentially
looks for city-block-sized pixels that have higher or lower levels of PM2.5
than others in their vicinity.

“These hotspots are notoriously difficult to find in maps of PM levels because
some days the air is just really bad across the entire city, and it is really
difficult to tell if there are true differences between them or if there’s
just a problem with the image contrast,” said Carlson. “It’s a big advantage
to be able to find a specific neighborhood that tends to stay higher or lower
than everywhere else, because it can help us answer questions about health
disparities and environmental fairness.”

While the exact methods the algorithm teaches itself can’t transfer from city
to city, the algorithm could easily teach itself new methods in different
locations. And while cities might evolve over time in both weather and
pollution patterns, the algorithm shouldn’t have any trouble evolving with
them. Plus, the researchers point out, the number of air quality sensors is
only going to increase in coming years, so they believe their approach will
only get better with time.

“I think we’ll be able to find built environments in these images that are
related to the hot and cool spots, which can have a huge environmental justice
component,” said Bergin. “The next step is to see how these hotspots are
related to socioeconomic status and hospital admittance rates from long-term
exposures. I think this approach could take us really far and the potential
applications are just amazing.”

The results appeared online April 1 in the journal Remote Sensing.

This work was supported in part by the Duke Energy Initiative as well as the
Office of the Provost at Duke University.

CITATION: “Local PM2.5 Hotspot Detector at 300 m Resolution: A Random
Forest–Convolutional Neural Network Joint Model Jointly Trained on Satellite
Images and Meteorology,” Tongshu Zheng, Michael Bergin, Guoyin Wang and David
Carlson. Remote Sensing, April 1, 2021. DOI: 10.3390/rs1307135

## Related News

April 22, 2020

### Spotting Air Pollution with Satellites, Better Than Ever Before

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

