

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profile: Ge Wang

August 3, 2013

Co-founder, Smule

******Graduation Year:** 2000

**Degree at Duke:**  
Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:**  
Computer Science

**Career Highlights:**

  * Associate professor at Stanford University’s Center for Computer Research
    in Music and Acoustics (CCRMA)
  * Co-founder of the software company Smule

> I’ve always been proud to be a Duke alum, but never more than now.

Ge Wang is on a roll, and it all started in Duke’s computer labs and music
classrooms—along with plenty of late night naps on Duke couches.

Wang, an associate professor at Stanford University’s Center for Computer
Research in Music and Acoustics (CCRMA) and co-founder of the software company
Smule, got his undergraduate degree in computer science from Duke in 2000.

He often worked late into the night at various computers labs around campus,
and it was easier to catch an hour or two of sleep on campus instead of
returning home. Before he graduated, he’d figured out how to make the most of
the arrangements.

“You can stretch out on the couches outside the Teer computer lab,” he said.
“But the couches at LSRC D wing are too short. So I would push two together to
be fully supported.”

Beyond fond memories of temporary sleeping arrangements, Wang remembers Duke
as the place where he discovered the possibilities of computer music. After
taking an electronic music course with Scott Lindroth, Vice Provost for the
Arts and Professor of Music, and computer science classes—including some from
Owen Astrachan, Director of Undergraduate Studies and Professor of the
Practice of Computer Science—the future opened up for him.

“I realized that music and computer science don’t have to be different
things,” Wang said when he returned to Duke in September to speak with
students about computer music and entrepreneurship as part of a special
school-wide colloquium with Duke Engineering, the Computer Science Department
and the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD).

Since leaving Duke, Wang has focused his efforts on his passion for computer
music education and research. He developed ChucK, a music programming
language; became co-director of Princeton’s Laptop Orchestra; and co-founded
Stanford’s Mobile Phone Orchestra. Each project is a result of his desire to
make expressive technology—which, in his case, is technology that makes it
easier to create music.

“I want to build things and bring about change in the way people do things,”
he said. “I want to give people new ways of doing things, like making music.”

Lindroth said that he’s excited by what Wang’s achieved. “Ge was at the
cutting edge when he was at Duke. It’s inspirational for our students to have
him come back and help them understand what’s possible when you synthesize
arts and sciences.”

Wang also experiments with new ways of making music. In some ways, technology
like recorded music and the radio took music out of the hands of amateurs and
made it something that only experts can do. Wang wants to use technology to
make it easy for anybody to make music.

“Making music is a joy unlike anything else,” he said. “These technologies can
change the way people think about music and connect through music.”

His success is apparent with Smule, the software company he co-founded. Smule
explores social music making via mobile devices. Wang said the company was
created out of a desire to bring the projects he explores in academia to a
consumer audience. More than 115 million people have downloaded their apps.

Wang wants to push technology further and create new instruments and new ways
of making music.

“Let’s get a million strangers together to make music. What would that sound
like? What would it take?” he asked. His research explores these questions and
more.

In addition to his passion for computer music education and research, Wang has
recently become involved in art education. This summer he travelled to China
to participate in art education for migrant workers’ children. The effort was
part of the Migrant Education Action Project, developed by Shucao Mo, a senior
studying philosophy, political science and theatre at Duke.

Duke has made great progress in making it easier for students to integrate
arts and sciences, Lindroth said. For example, departments including chemistry
and mathematics have taken advantage of the Visiting Artist in Residence
Program to explore interdisciplinary connections.

Wang is excited by the direction Duke is moving and the energy he sees on
campus. He credits much of this to leadership of Lindroth.

“I’ve always been proud to be a Duke alum, but never more than now,” he said.

_Originally published Fall 2013. Written by Michael Gowan._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

