

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profiles Series: Mudit Jain

December 12, 2016 | By Ashley Williams, BME PhD Student

Mudit Jain, who studied cardiac electrophysiology as a NSF GRFP Fellow,
graduated from Duke with a with a Ph.D. in biomedical engineering in 1999.

_Originally posted by theDuke Graduate School_

_Mudit Jain, who studied cardiac electrophysiology as a_NSF GRFP Fellow,
_graduated from Duke with a with a Ph.D. in_biomedical engineering _in 1999.
Following his Ph.D., Dr. Jain earned an MBA from Wharton School of Business at
the University of Pennsylvania. He received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering
from the National Institute of Technology in India. Dr. Jain is currently a
General Partner at_ Synergy Life Sciences Partners _, a medical device focused
venture capital fund. He lives in the San Francisco area with his wife and
daughter._

#### WHAT HAS YOUR CAREER PATH LOOKED LIKE SINCE YOU GRADUATED? HOW DID YOU
GET INTO WHAT YOU DO NOW?

After my graduation, I worked with a small start-up in Silicon Valley in the
area of cardiac ablation product development. I then worked with Guidant Corp
(merged with Boston Scientific in 2006) in their Research & Development
division focused on Cardiac Rhythm Management devices. My time at Guidant gave
me valuable experience in product development; I learned what it takes to
bring these devices to the market to serve clinical needs. I became very
interested in "external collaboration" and innovative work. This led me to
pursue a MBA at Wharton with the intent of working in business development
and/or venture capital where I could leverage my deep technical and analytical
training from Duke and the business concepts and learnings from Wharton. After
my MBA, I was recruited by the Chief Scientific Officer at Johnson & Johnson
in their Corporate Office of Science and Technology, and then worked with
Johnson & Johnson Development Corporation (JJDC), which is the company's
corporate venture arm. At JJDC, I worked in multiple therapeutic areas such as
cardiovascular, diabetes, spine, orthopedics, ophthalmology, women's health,
neurovascular and many others. The opportunity to join an independent venture
fund led to my current role as a General Partner at Synergy Life Science
Partners.

#### WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE THING ABOUT YOUR CURRENT CAREER, AND WHAT HAS BEEN
THE MOST SURPRISING THING ABOUT IT?

As a General Partner in a medical device focused fund, I assess new
technologies that can one day have a major impact on diseases. The best part
of my job is working with people who are extremely passionate and driven to
bring novel therapies to market that will impact millions of patients across
the globe. Additionally, it's the multi-dimensionality of the job that I enjoy
the most. Working on various therapeutic areas and problems from multiple
areas in industry provides so much intellectual stimulation. There is never a
dull movement! The most surprising thing about my current job is that while
each venture may seem different and present its own challenges, at the core
the problems are very similar. Lots of learnings from one situation are
applicable and transferable across companies and ventures.

#### WHAT TYPES OF EXPERIENCES DID YOU HAVE AS A GRADUATE STUDENT THAT
INFLUENCED YOUR DESIRE TO ENTER YOUR PROFESSION?

The multi-disciplinary approach of biomedical engineering gave me the
foundation necessary to speak "multiple languages" with multiple stakeholders
such as clinicians, technologists, IP, and regulatory folks. This is still
very handy even today in my role as a venture capitalist. The ability to work
closely with medical schools and physicians brought a deep understanding of
how things work in a clinical setting and on real patients. The combination of
computer modeling, pre-clinical work and clinical work really helped me to
develop a more rounded perspective and understanding of various tools that are
used in medical device development. The exposure I had through internships and
the NSF fellowship encouraged collaboration with industry, and impacted my
experience and thinking tremendously. My Ph.D. advisor, Dr. Patrick D. Wolf,
encouraged my interests both within academia and industry. Through the
internships I worked with pioneers in the medical device industry and had
industry mentors who played a big role in my decision to pursue a career in
medical devices. Those relationships continued beyond grad school and they are
part of my network of advisors that I continue to reach out to when I need
industry expertise and guidance. In addition to the incredible core biomedical
course work and technical skills, the uncertainties and unpredictable nature
of a Ph.D. program prepared me well to work with small start-ups. The start-
ups also go through very similar ups and downs and uncertainties as a Ph.D.
program.

#### DO YOU HAVE ANY INTERESTING PROJECTS OR PROFESSIONAL PLANS IN THE WORKS?

Yes, I do have some very exciting projects that we are working on in the
neuromodulation field. Unfortunately, I can't talk too much about it as it is
still in the stealth mode. But, needless to say, we are developing some very
novel therapies using electrical stimulation for treating large unmet needs in
neuro space, and I am sure we will be working with the great faculty at Duke
very closely on some of these projects.

#### WHAT'S THE BEST CAREER ADVICE YOU'VE EVER RECEIVED?

There is no single advice that comes to mind. There have been many mentors who
have provided great advice and insights that have been tremendously helpful in
my career. Perhaps the most important lesson is that there is learning in
everything I have done. Setbacks and failure have served as great learning
moments. One of my mentors shared a quote with me from Denis Waitley: "Failure
is delay, not defeat. It is a temporary detour, not a dead end. Failure is
something we can avoid only by saying nothing, doing nothing, and being
nothing." It is apt and has served me well in high-risk, early stage medical
device development, where obstacles and setbacks are many.

#### DO YOU HAVE ANY ADVICE YOU'D LIKE TO SHARE WITH CURRENT GRADUATE STUDENTS
AT DUKE?

Make the most of your time in grad school. The coursework and the thesis are
demanding, but don't forget to savor life and experiences outside of school.
Be multi-disciplinary in your education as most real-world problems don't fall
into a single discipline. Make wise use of the amazing resources available at
Duke. Explore career options beyond the traditional paths. There are so many
innovative and new paths available for you. Reach out to alumni and hold
informational interviews exploring the immense possibilities.

#### LAST, BUT CERTAINLY NOT LEAST – WHAT IS ONE OF YOUR FAVORITE MEMORIES OF
DUKE?

That's a tough one. I have many great memories from my time at Duke. Like most
of us from Duke, one of my favorite memories is Duke basketball. I did not
realize how big college sports was in the U.S., especially Duke basketball. I
was pulled into a blue-white scrimmage by my fellow classmates and, as they
say, the rest is history. Along with the Blue Devils, another precious memory
at Duke is when my daughter was born at Duke. She shares her birthday with
Coach K. The Duke-Maryland game was on that day and my wife was not too
excited about me watching the game in the delivery room.... I believe we won
that game!

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

