

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Amanda Randles Wins IEEE-CS High Performance Computing Award

September 28, 2017

Award recognizes young researchers who have made outstanding, influential and
potentially long-lasting contributions in the field of high-performance
computing

The IEEE Computer Society (IEEE-CS) has selected Amanda Randles, assistant
professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University, as one of three
winners of the IEEE-CS Technical Consortium on High-Performance Computing
(TCHPC) Award for Excellence for Early Career Researchers in High-Performance
Computing.

Randles' work focuses on the design of large-scale parallel applications
targeting biomedical questions. Her research goals are to both investigate
fundamental questions related to fluid dynamics as well as extend the
multiscale models to study cancer metastasis and vascular disease.

In 2014, she was awarded the NIH Early Independence Award to support the
development of models of cancer migration in the human vasculature. Randles is
a co-inventor on 115 US patents in the field of parallel computing. She won
the ACM/IEEE-CS George Michael High-Performance Computing Fellowship in 2010
and 2012 and was a finalist for the Gordon Bell Prize for achievement in high-
performance computing in 2010 and 2015.

Randles received her Bachelor's Degree in both computer science and physics
from Duke University, her master's degree in computer science from Harvard
University, and her Ph.D. in applied physics from Harvard University with a
secondary field in computational science. From 2013-2015, she was a Lawrence
Fellow at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Before graduate school, she
worked for three years as a software developer at IBM on the Blue Gene
Development Team.

The TCHPC Award recognizes up to three individuals who have made outstanding,
influential and potentially long-lasting contributions in the field of high-
performance computing within five years of receiving their PhD degree as of
January 1 of the year of the award. Awardees will be presented a plaque at the
SC17 conference held in Denver, Colorado, on November 13-16, 2017.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

