

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Andrew Bragg: Making Sense of Chaos in Environmental Systems

June 27, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Andrew Bragg studies how turbulent flows affect natural
systems from coalescing raindrops to forming planets

Andrew Bragg will join the faculty of the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering at Duke University beginning September 1, 2016.
Returning to academia after a stint at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Bragg
plans to create a fluid dynamics research center to investigate how turbulence
in fluid flows influences a variety of environmental systems.

The motion of fluids in the environment can be described as either laminar or
turbulent. The former is a well-organized, well-understood flow with dynamics
that can be precisely calculated and predicted. Most flows found in nature,
however, are the latter.

Turbulent flows are a chaotic mess, often containing particles which move
every which way at varying speeds. Thanks to their unpredictable nature,
turbulent flows are difficult to understand, model and simulate. Bragg’s
research focuses on addressing these difficulties.

“My research uses a mixture of advanced theoretical methods coupled with
computational simulations,” said Bragg. “We use tools from applied mathematics
and statistical physics to explore and understand the basic aspects of these
systems, and then use that fundamental knowledge to develop simplified models
that can be implemented in large-scale simulations.”

For example, different layers of ocean water vary greatly in temperature,
salinity and density. These gradients cause water to flow and mix together
chaotically, taking organisms living within along for the ride. Bragg is
trying to better understand the dynamics of these systems and how they cause
organisms to clump together and interact, which affects their population
dynamics.

Another example is modeling how water droplets move relative to one another
deep within storm clouds, where turbulent flows enhance collision rates and
affect how droplets coalesce and form rain drops. Developing accurate large-
scale models of these phenomena could help meteorologists better predict
rainstorms.

On an even grander scale, turbulence plays an important role in the dynamics
of interstellar nebulae, and is thought to be important for understanding the
physical mechanisms responsible for the creation of planets and solar systems.

“The implications of my research are very diverse, going all the way from tiny
organisms mixing in our oceans right up to astrophysical and cosmological
questions,” said Bragg.

Of course, Bragg can’t do any of this alone. He has a network of
experimentalist collaborators from all across the country, from the University
of Buffalo to the University of Alabama and Cornell University—friends he made
from several stops along the way to Duke.

After earning a PhD in theoretical fluid dynamics from Newcastle University in
England, Bragg completed a postdoctoral position at Cornell University. He
then decided to test the waters as a researcher at Los Alamos National
Laboratory, but found that he missed working with students and the vibrancy of
a university campus. Less than a year and a half later, he accepted his new
position at Duke.

Bragg hopes to pull together a network of researchers studying fluid dynamics
from all corners of campus, from faculty working on flutter in turbine engines
and airplane wings to biomedical researchers focusing on the flow of blood
through the vasculature system.

“There are some real stars in Duke engineering who work on related but
different projects, so the ability to form collaborations and branch out into
other areas is extremely exciting to me,” said Bragg. “And the superb
reputation of the university attracts some of the brightest students in the
country, so the position is very attractive in terms of the caliber of
students that I’ll be able to work with.

“Both my wife and I are eager to return to the East Coast,” continued Bragg,
who also has a two-and-a-half-year-old and a five-month-old daughter. “We
vacationed at Morrow Mountain State Park a few years ago. It was very
beautiful and made us fall in love with North Carolina. So while we both
appreciate the beauty of the desert in the Southwest, we have really missed
the greenery and water of the East Coast.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

