

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Managing Antibiotics Not Enough to Reverse Resistance

November 22, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Gene-swapping bacteria don’t lose resistance after antibiotics end

Researchers have discovered that reducing the use of antibiotics will not be
enough to reverse the growing prevalence of antibiotic resistance for some
types of bacteria.

Besides passing along the genes bestowing antibiotic resistance to their
offspring, many bacteria can also swap genes amongst themselves through a
process called conjugation. There has long been a debate, however, as to
whether this process occurs fast enough to spread through a population that is
not under attack by antibiotics.

In a new study, researchers from Duke University believe they have found a
definitive answer to that question. Through a series of experiments with
bacteria capable of conjugation, they show that all of the bacteria tested
share genes fast enough to maintain resistance. They also show, however, that
there are ways to disrupt the process and reverse antibiotic resistance.

The results appear online on Nov. 22 in the journal Nature Communications.

"The results came as a surprise to me when I first saw the data," said
Lingchong You, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of Engineering
at Duke University and corresponding author on the paper. "For all of the
bacteria we tested, their conjugation rate is sufficiently fast that, even if
you don't use antibiotics, the resistance can be maintained --even if the
genes carry a high cost."

Most resistance to antibiotics arises and spreads through natural selection.
If a few lucky bacteria have genes that help them survive a round of
antibiotics, they quickly parent the next generation and pass on those genes.

Many of these genes, however, come at a cost. For example, a mutation may
allow a bacterium to build a thicker membrane to survive a particular
antibiotic, but that mutation might also make it more difficult for the cell
to reproduce. Without the selective pressure of antibiotics killing off the
competition, bacteria with this mutation should disappear over time.

But when the genes responsible for resistance can also be swapped between
cells, the equation gets more complicated. In favor of maintaining the
resistance is the rate at which the genes are shared. Working against it is
the previously mentioned biological cost of the genes, and the natural error
rate in genes when they are passed on.

"There have been some studies on how critical conjugation is to maintaining
resistance despite its cost, but there has been a lack of careful and well-
defined experiments to come to definitive conclusions," said You. "That's
where Allison has made a central contribution. Her incredibly thorough
measurements allow us to draw our conclusions with high confidence."

Allison Lopatkin, a doctoral student in You's laboratory and first author of
the paper, carefully measured the rate of conjugation and antibiotic
resistance in pathogens for more than a month. The strains were obtained
through a parallel project with Duke Health, in which You is trying to
determine just how common conjugation is amongst pathogens.

So far, You has found that more than 30 percent of the bacterial pathogens he
has tested spread resistance through conjugation. And of those, nine were
further tested by Lopatkin to see how well they would maintain their
resistance in the abscence of antibiotics.

"Every single clinical strain we tested maintained its resistance through
conjugation even without the selective pressure of antibiotics," said
Lopatkin.

The results indicate that -- at least for bacteria that swap resistance genes
-- simply managing the amount of antibiotics being used will not turn the tide
on the growing problem of resistance. To make any headway, according to You
and Lopatkin, drugs will also be needed that both stop the sharing of genes
and decrease the rate at which they are passed on through reproduction.

Luckily, such drugs already exist, and there may be many more out there
waiting to be discovered.

"We did the same experiments with one drug that is known to inhibit
conjugation and another that encourages resistance genes to be lost," Lopatkin
said. "We found that without the presence of antibiotics we could reverse the
bacteria's resistance in four of the pathogens we tested and could stop it
from spreading in the rest."

One of the drugs is a benign natural product and the second is an FDA-approved
antipsychotic. While the team has filed a provisional patent for the use of
the combination to reverse antibiotic resistance, they hope future work will
reveal even better options.

"As a next step, we're interested in identifying additional chemicals that can
fill these roles more effectively," said You. "Historically, when researchers
screened huge libraries for medicines, they focused on drugs that can kill the
bacteria. But what our studies suggest is that there is a whole new universe
where you can now screen for other functions, like the ability to block
conjugation or to induce the loss of resistance genes. These chemicals, once
proven safe, can serve as adjuvants of the standard antibiotic treatment, or
they can be applied in an environmental setting as a way of generally managing
of the spread of antibiotic resistance."

This research was supported by the U.S. Army Research Office
(W911NF-14-1-0490), the National Institutes of Health (1R01-GM098642), and the
National Science Foundation (1614538).

CITATION: "Persistence and reversal of plasmid-mediated antibiotic
resistance." Allison J. Lopatkin, Hannah R. Meredith, Jaydeep K. Srimani,
Connor Pfeiffer, Rick Durrett, Lingchong You. Nature Communications, Nov. 22,
2017. DOI: 10.1038/s41467-017-01532-1  
# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

