

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Appalachian Coal Ash Richest in Rare Earth Elements

May 27, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Concentrations are highest in coal from the Appalachian Mountains

A study of the content of rare earth elements in U.S. coal ashes shows that
coal mined from the Appalachian Mountains could be the proverbial golden goose
for hard-to-find materials critical to clean energy and other emerging
technologies.

In the wake of a 2014 coal ash spill into North Carolina's Dan River from a
ruptured Duke Energy drainage pipe, the question of what to do with the
nation's aging retention ponds and future coal ash waste has been a highly
contested topic.

One particularly entrepreneurial idea is to extract so-called "critical" rare
earth elements such as neodymium, europium, terbium, dysprosium, yttrium and
erbium from the burned coal. The Department of Energy has identified these
globally scarce metals as a priority for their uses in clean energy and other
emerging technologies. But exactly how much of these elements are contained in
different sources of coal ash in the U.S. had never been explored.

Researchers from Duke University measured the content of rare earth elements
in samples of coal ash representing every major coal source in the United
States. They also looked at how much of these elements could be extracted from
ash using a common industrial technique.

The results, published online May 26 in the journal Environmental Science and
Technology, showed that coal from the Appalachian Mountains contains the most
rare earth elements. However, if extraction technologies were cheap enough,
there are plenty of rare earth elements to be found in other sources as well.

"The Department of Energy is investing $20 million into research on extraction
technologies for coal wastes, and there is literally billions of dollars'
worth of rare earth elements contained in our nation's coal ash," said Heileen
Hsu-Kim, the Mary Milus Yoh and Harold L. Yoh, Jr. Associate Professor of
Civil and Environmental Engineering at Duke.

"If a program were to move forward, they'd clearly want to pick the coal ash
with the highest amount of extractable rare earth elements, and our work is
the first comprehensive study to begin surveying the options," Hsu-Kim said.

The researchers took coal ash samples from power plants located mostly in the
American Midwest that burn coal sourced from all over the country, including
the three largest sources: the Appalachian Mountains, southern and western
Illinois, and the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and Montana. The content of
rare earth elements was then tested using hydrofluoric acid, which is much
stronger and more efficient than industrial methods, but is too hazardous to
use on a large scale.

The results showed that ash collected from Appalachian Mountain coal has the
highest amount of rare earth elements at 591 milligrams per kilogram (or parts
per million). Ash from Illinois and the Powder River Basin contain 403 mg/kg
and 337 mg/kg, respectively.

The researchers then used a common industrial extraction technique featuring
nitric acid to see how much of the rare earth elements could be recovered.
Coal ash from the Appalachian Mountains saw the lowest extraction percentages,
while ash from the Powder River Basin saw the highest. Hsu-Kim thnks this
might be because the rare earth elements in the Appalachian Mountain coal ash
are encapsulated within a glassy matrix of aluminum silicates, which nitric
acid doesn't dissolve very well.

"One reason to pick coal ash from the Appalachian Mountains would be for its
high rare earth element content, but you'd have to use a recovery method other
than nitric acid," said Hsu-Kim, who also holds an appointment in Duke's
Nicholas School of the Environment. "For any future venture to begin an
extraction program, the recovery method will need to be tailored to the
specific chemistry of the coal ash being used."

The Duke researchers also tried "roasting" the coal ash with an alkali agent
before dissolving it with nitric acid. Even though the process hadn't been
optimized for recovery purposes, the tests showed a marked improvement in
extraction efficiency.

"The reagents we used are probably too expensive to use on an industrial
scale, but there are many similar chemicals," said Hsu-Kim. "The trick will be
exploring our options and developing technologies to drive the costs down.
That way we can tap into this vast resource that is currently just sitting
around in disposal ponds."

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation (CBET-1510965,
OISE-12-43433), the Environmental Research and Education Foundation and the
American Coal Ash Association.

The study is available free online at
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021%2Facs.est.6b00085.

###

"Trends in the Rare Earth Element Content of U.S.-Based Coal Combustion Fly
Ashes," Ross K. Taggart, James C. Hower, Gary S. Dwyer and Heileen Hsu-Kim.
Environmental Science &  
Technology, May 26, 2016. DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.6b00085  
Online: https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021%2Facs.est.6b00085

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

