

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tweaked Genes Borrowed From Bacteria Excite Heart Cells in Live Mice

February 3, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

First approach to promote electrical excitation of heart cells in live mammals
could lead to new gene therapy treatments for a wide range of heart diseases

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a gene therapy that
helps heart muscle cells electrically activate in live mice. The first
demonstration of its kind, the approach features engineered bacterial genes
that code for sodium ion channels and could lead to therapies to treat a wide
variety of electrical heart diseases and disorders.

The results appeared online February 2 in the journal Nature Communications.

“We were able to improve how well heart muscle cells can initiate and spread
electrical activity, which is hard to accomplish with drugs or other tools,”
said Nenad Bursac, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “The method we
used to deliver genes in heart muscle cells of mice has been previously shown
to persist for a long time, which means it could effectively help hearts that
struggle to beat as regularly as they should.”

Sodium-ion channels are proteins in the outer membranes of electrically
excitable cells, such as heart or brain cells, that transmit electrical
charges into the cell. In the heart, these channels tell muscle cells when to
contract and pass the instruction along so that the organ pumps blood as a
cohesive unit. Damaged heart cells, however, whether from disease or trauma,
often lose all or part of their ability to transmit these signals and join the
effort.

One approach researchers can take to restoring this functionality is gene
therapy. By delivering the genes responsible for creating sodium channel
proteins, the technique can produce more ion channels in the diseased cells to
help boost their activity.

In mammals, sodium channel genes are unfortunately too large to fit within the
viruses currently used in modern gene therapies in humans. To skirt this
issue, Bursac and his laboratory instead turned to smaller genes that code for
similar sodium ion channels in bacteria. While these bacterial genes are
different than their human counterparts, evolution has conserved many
similarities in the channel design since multi-cellular organisms diverged
from bacteria hundreds of millions of years ago.

Several years ago, Hung Nguyen, a former doctoral student in Bursac’s
laboratory who now works for Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies, mutated these
bacterial genes so that the channels they encode could become active in human
cells. In the new work, current doctoral student Tianyu Wu further optimized
the content of the genes and combined them with a “promoter” that exclusively
restricts channel production to heart muscle cells. The researchers then
tested their approach by delivering a virus loaded with the bacterial gene
into veins of a mouse to spread throughout the body.

“We worked to find where the sodium ion channels were actually formed, and, as
we hoped, we found that they only went into the working muscle cells of the
heart within the atria and ventricles,” Wu said. “We also found that they did
not end up in the heart cells that originate the heartbeat, which we also
wanted to avoid.”

This gene therapy approach only delivers extra genes within a cell; it does
not attempt to cut out, replace or rewrite the existing DNA in any way.
Scientists believe these types of delivered genes make proteins while floating
freely within the cell, making use of the existing biochemical machinery.
Previous research with this viral gene delivery approach suggests the
transplanted genes should remain active for many years.

As a proof of concept, tests on cells in a laboratory setting suggest that the
treatment improves electrical excitability enough to prevent human
abnormalities like arrhythmias. Within live mice, the results demonstrate that
the sodium ion channels are active in the hearts, showing trends toward
improved excitability. However, further tests are needed to measure how much
of an improvement is made on the whole-heart level, and whether it is enough
to rescue electrical function in damaged or diseased heart tissue to be used
as a viable treatment.

Moving forward, the researchers have already identified different bacterial
sodium channel genes that work better in preliminary benchtop studies. The
team is also working with the laboratories of Craig Henriquez, professor of
biomedical engineering at Duke, and Andrew Landstrom, director of the Duke
Pediatric Research Scholars Program, to test the ability of these genes to
restore heart functionality in mouse models that mimic human heart diseases.

“I think this work is really exciting,” Bursac said. “We have been harnessing
what nature made billions of years ago to help humans with modern-day
disease.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (HL134764,
HL132389, HL126524, 1U01HL143336-01), the Duke Translating Duke Health
Initiative, and the American Heart Association Predoctoral Fellowship
(829638).

CITATION: “Engineered Bacterial Voltage-Gated Sodium Channel Platform for
Cardiac Gene Therapy,” Hung X. Nguyen, Tianyu Wu, Daniel Needs, Hengtao Zhang,
Robin M. Perelli, Sophia DeLuca, Rachel Yang, Michael Tian, Andrew P.
Landstrom, Craig Henriquez & Nenad Bursac. Nature Communications,
(2022)13:620. DOI: 10.1038/s41467-022-28251

LINK: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-022-28251-6.epdf

# # #

## Related News

November 28, 2017

### Beating Heart Patch is Large Enough to Repair the Human Heart

October 18, 2016

### Bacterial Genes Boost Current in Human Cells

January 13, 2015

### First Contracting Human Muscle Grown in Laboratory

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

