

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# We Are All Engineers Now: Barton Professorship Aims to Boost
Interdisciplinary Research

April 17, 2018

Maiken Mikkelsen has been named first holder of the professorship.

It's difficult to imagine a world without plastics, but when Jim Barton
graduated from Duke in 1960 the petrochemicals industry was just beginning to
take off. Today, plastic is critical to everything from agriculture to
household goods, medicine, and industry. Jim enjoyed a long and successful
career in petrochemical technical sales and automation with Union Carbide.

For his son, Rich Barton, a former Microsoft executive and founder of leading
innovative companies Expedia, Zillow, and Glassdoor, the example was
compelling. "My dad went into the industry that was inventing the future,"
says Rich. "He set a fine example for me in that way."

Shaping the future was exactly what Rich and his wife, Sarah, had in mind when
they recently established the James N. and Elizabeth H. Barton Associate
Professorship of Electrical and Computer Engineering in Duke's Pratt School of
Engineering in honor of his parents. The couple is committed to attracting
more young people into science, technology, engineering and math (STEM).

"We need more well-trained engineers," says Rich. "I would tell you that we
are all engineers now. There is no aspect of academics, business, politics and
life where engineering doesn't play a role."

The Bartons' gift was matched through the Vinik Faculty Challenge, established
in 2012 by Duke alumnus Jeffrey N. Vinik and his wife, Penny, to help Duke
recruit and retain world-class professors who focus on challenges in
engineering and related areas, including energy, medicine and the environment.

The Bartons were thrilled to learn that Maiken Mikkelsen has been named first
holder of the professorship. Mikkelsen joined Duke in 2012. She holds advanced
degrees in physics and completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the University
of California at Berkeley. Her research interests include experimental studies
of spin dynamics in solid state systems, light-matter interactions in
nanostructures, plasmonics, and quantum information science.

"The computer science and engineering expertise she brings, and all of the
interdisciplinary skills she has are just wonderful," says Jim. "I believe
[the professorship] will be a real tribute to the engineering school, and
attractive for future faculty members."

Jim Barton first became intrigued with interdisciplinary teams when he served
on the Dean's Council, the precursor to the current Pratt Board of Visitors.
At the time, funds were being raised to build the Fitzpatrick Center for
Interdisciplinary Engineering, Medicine, and Applied Sciences (FCIEMAS).
Completed in 2004, FCIEMAS is designed to encourage students and faculty to
work at the boundaries between disciplines to make major advances in the
fields of bioengineering, photonics, communications, and materials science and
materials engineering.

"It's just been wonderful to watch engineering and the sciences begin to
collaborate, and now with the capabilities of computers and artificial
intelligence, it's just going to go crazy," says Jim. "And Rich, with his
knowledge of the computer and Internet, recognizes what these technologies can
do for science and education. Betsy and I are very proud of Richard and Sarah
wanting to do this. It's always been part of our family's DNA that we love to
give back and make the world better."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

