

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bejan Recognized for Impact

September 9, 2019

Adrian Bejan ranked among the top 0.01% of leading world scientists in new
citations impact database

J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering Adrian Bejan has been ranked
among the top 0.01% of leading world scientists in new citations impact
database created by Stanford University’s John Ioannidis and discussed in PLoS
Biology.

According to Ioannidis, the database aims to standardize citation metrics by
capturing not only total citations and h-index, but also co-authorship
adjusted impact, and information on impact in papers according to different
author positions (single, first, last author). It features the 100,000 most
influential scientists in the world, of the 7 million scientists who have
published at least five papers in their careers. The data spans 22 major
fields and 176 sub-fields.

Bejan, who is classified under the major field of Mechanical Engineering and
Transports and the subfield of Energy, is well-known for his contributions to
modern thermodynamics and development of the constructal law, which traces
conductive paths in natural networks. Originally stemming from the knowledge
that electronic components that are too small for convective cooling must be
designed for efficient conduction, constructal law was born from Bejan’s
observation of similar behavior in systems both animate and inanimate, from
human veins and capillaries to waterways and deltas, and theorized that such
systems must evolve to provide access to currents and flow. Constructal law
accounts for "the evolution of everything," according to Bejan.

Bejan has received 18 honorary doctorates from universities in 11 countries,
and has authored 30 books and more than 650 peer-referred articles. He was
awarded the 2018 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Mechanical Engineering and the
2019 Humboldt Research Award for lifetime achievement.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

