

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Blake Wilson Named 2015 IEEE Fellow

December 12, 2014

Wilson has been named a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers in recognition for his work in the development of cochlear implants

Blake Wilson, adjunct professor of surgery, biomedical engineering, and
electrical and computer engineering at Duke University, has been named a
fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in
recognition for his work in the development of cochlear implants.

The IEEE Grade of Fellow is conferred by the IEEE Board of Directors upon a
person with an outstanding record of accomplishments in any of the IEEE fields
of interest. The total number selected in any one year cannot exceed one-tenth
of one percent of the total voting membership. IEEE Fellow is the highest
grade of membership and is recognized by the technical community as a
prestigious honor and an important career achievement.

According to the National Institutes of Health, about 36 million adults in
America alone report some degree of hearing loss, ranging from difficulty
hearing some high-pitched sounds to total deafness. The development of the
cochlear implant provided new medical options for those seeking to restore
hearing; to date more than 400,000 persons have received a cochlear implant
worldwide.

In the late 1980s and early 1990s, Wilson and his teams developed many of the
processing strategies used in the present-day cochlear implant systems to
translate sounds into electrical signals the brain can interpret. The devices
send the signals directly to the auditory nerve, bypassing sensory hair cells
in the inner ear that are damaged or absent in patients who are deaf or
severely hearing impaired.

Although results were modest at first, continuous improvements in processing
strategies and electrode designs have made cochlear implants widely used,
proving to be especially beneficial to children in recent years. Today, the
great majority of cochlear implant users can talk on phones and follow
conversations in relatively quiet environments.

The IEEE is the world’s leading professional association for advancing
technology for humanity. Through its 400,000 members in 160 countries, the
IEEE is a leading authority on a wide variety of areas ranging from aerospace
systems, computers and telecommunications to biomedical engineering, electric
power and consumer electronics.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

