

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Blueprint 2019 Returns This Weekend, with Oceans + Innovation

January 29, 2019

Third annual ideathon aims to make waves in ocean conservation

This Friday and Saturday, Duke Conservation Tech (DCT) will host its third
annual Blueprint conference. In addition to a free, public discussion with
sustainable technology and innovation experts from National Geographic, the
Explorers Club, and the Pew Charitable Trusts, the conference features an
ideation competition focused on conservation technology for students from
schools across the country.

DCT is a student organization led by and composed of undergraduate students
from Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and Nicholas School of the
Environment. The group founded Blueprint in 2017 to bring greater awareness of
critical environmental issues to a broad audience. DCT calls the competition
component an ideathon, because it encourages students to generate blueprints
for numerous solutions to pressing environmental issues, rather than
concentrating on a single, silver-bullet solution.

“Our mission is to inspire disruptive innovation for future-focused global
change,” said Joshua Furth ME ’18, a founding member of DCT who continues to
help organize Blueprint. “Harnessing the energy and rapid pace of hackathons
gives students of all academic backgrounds, even those without engineering or
other technical backgrounds, the power and confidence to make real change.”

> “Harnessing the energy and rapid pace of hackathons gives students of all
> academic backgrounds, even those without engineering or other technical
> backgrounds, the power and confidence to make real change.”
>
> Joshua Furth ME'18

Each year Blueprint tackles a different issue of environmentalism and
conservation. This year’s event aims to inspire actionable blueprints for
sustainable and scalable technologies that make waves in ocean conservation.
Past themes have included “People + Wildlife” and “Nature + Progress.”

Past Blueprint events have led to more than 20 promising blueprints for
sustainable change, many of which Duke Conservation Tech has taken on as
ongoing student projects, said Maya Sheth BME ‘20, student-president of DCT
and lead organizer of Blueprint 2019.

For example, in areas where elephants and farmers coexist, the huge animals
frequently trample and destroy farmers’ crops, causing tension and threatening
the livelihood of communities. At the 2017 Blueprint ideathon, a student noted
that elephants are terrified of bees, and posed a question: could a fence made
of vibrating rubber bands, that replicates the buzzing of bees, keep elephants
away from valuable crops? With the help of the US Army Research Office, one of
the original sponsors of Blueprint, DCT implemented the idea in South Africa
last year with encouraging results, according to Sheth, and the new technology
could help smooth the thorny relationship between people and wildlife in the
region. By partnering with organizations to support team’s blueprint ideas,
DCT hopes that Blueprint will be an agent of change in conservation technology
far beyond the weekend itself.

Blueprint has grown significantly since its inception three years ago. While
the first event was attended by barely over 100 people, Blueprint 2018 had an
audience of nearly 300, and DCT is planning for a crowd of equal or larger
size this year. The organizers attribute the event’s growth to the
approachable tone they have cultivated for the event, and a deepening interest
in environmental issues in general.

Blueprint 2019 begins on Friday, February 1 with the Speakers Panel, and
continues on Saturday, February 2 with the ideathon competition.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

