

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# BME Seniors Showcase Projects at 2017 Design Symposium

April 28, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

Students presented final design projects to faculty judges and peers during
the celebratory event

The Fitzpatrick Center was bursting with activity during the Duke Biomedical
Engineering (BME) Student Design Symposium as graduating seniors presented
their final design projects to faculty, staff and friends. Attendees had a lot
to see, with projects including the creation of an interactive laundry
assistant, the design for a new vaccine delivery system and the cost-effective
development of a drug used for HIV prevention.

The event featured short, summary presentations from students in front of the
entire crowd, followed by an open poster session where the teams had an
opportunity to demonstrate their designs and answer questions. In addition to
a formal design competition with BME faculty acting as judges, students had
their own turn to act as judges during the “People’s Choice” competition by
depositing “Tosh Money” ––fake hundred-dollar bills with BME Chair Ashutosh
Chilkoti’s face in place of Benjamin Franklin’s––into a bin at their favorite
presentation.

After counting the “Tosh Money” and conferring with the judges, BME’s
Elizabeth Bucholz announced that the “OptiBone” team of Meredith Lee, Vinay
Nagaraj, Sonali Shah, Niranjana Shashikumar and Mounika Vanka were awarded
first place for their device, which uses optical coherence tomography to
monitor neonatal bone density. Second place went to the “Holter Monitor”
project from Paige Belliveau, Gautam Chebrolu, Kate Gelman, Alden Harwood and
David Zhou, which used a Holter monitor system to detect how often premature
ventricular contractions occurred during the day for diagnostic purposes.
Jenny Egerter and Hunter Hutchinson took home the “People’s Choice” prize for
their project, “Eye Spy,” an easy-to-use insulin insertion device created for
people with Type 1 diabetes.

The 2017 BME Design Symposium featured the work of students from the senior
design courses taught by Kevin Caves, Joseph Izatt, Mike Lynch, Paolo
Maccarini, Robert Malkin, Mark Palmeri, Monty Reichert, and Olaf von Ramm. In
addition to challenging the students to create practical solutions to real-
world problems, these design projects also serve to illustrate the different
interests and strengths of the BME department at Duke, ranging from
instruments in neuro-optics to tools for use in developing countries.

“With engineering, it’s not surprising when a design doesn’t work the first
time,” said Bucholz, associate director of undergraduate studies for BME. “But
our students have shown that they are willing to do whatever they can to make
these designs come to life.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

