

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# BME Postdoc Awarded Competitive CPRIT Grant for Cancer Research

May 22, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

BME's Isaac Hilton received a CPRIT grant to study innovative cancer research
in his own lab at Rice University.

Isaac Hilton, a postdoctoral fellow in Duke University's Department of
Biomedical Engineering (BME), recently received a grant to participate in the
Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas (CPRIT). As a CPRIT Scholar
in Cancer Research, Hilton will work as an assistant professor of
bioengineering at Rice University, where he will receive $2 million in CPRIT
start-up funds to work on innovative cancer research.

“This is a unique opportunity, because the funding was approved by Texas
voters with the ultimate goal of changing and improving how we detect and
treat cancer,” says Hilton. “This particular award is geared towards
recruiting cancer researchers who are seeking their first tenure-track
appointment to Texas. This strategy is designed to position Texas as a leader
in the fight against cancer well into the foreseeable future."

The CPRIT program began in 2007 after Texas voters passed a constitutional
amendment authorizing the state to issue $3 billion in bonds to fund cancer
research. The initiative aims to recruit experienced researchers with a
background in cancer who are then encouraged to study forms of cancer that are
especially problematic for Texas healthcare, such as lung cancer and breast
cancer.

Hilton, who earned his PhD in genetics and molecular biology from the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, has worked as a postdoctoral
fellow in BME’s Charlie Gersbach’s lab since November 2013. During his time at
Duke, he used epigenomic editing tools based on CRISPR-Cas9 to study the role
that biochemical modifications play in controlling the expression of human
genes.

“Isaac’s work has been at the leading edge of the new field of epigenome
editing,” says Gersbach. “It’s very encouraging to see the CPRIT program
recognize the potential of Isaac’s work to have a transformative effect on
cancer research and treatment.”

Now, Hilton will bring his experience with cancer research and epigenome
editing to his own lab at Rice, where he is planning to study the role of
epigenetic modifications in regions of the genome that we suspect are
associated with cancer onset and progression. “Emerging genome editing
technologies provide us with the opportunity to address questions about cancer
that we have been attempting to answer for decades,” he said.

“This highly competitive award is not only a recognition of Isaac’s research
accomplishments, but it also attests to the world-class research that is going
on in Duke BME labs,” says Ashutosh Chilkoti, chair of the BME department.

Although Hilton looks forward to the new opportunities available to him, he is
grateful for his time at Duke. “Charlie has been an amazing mentor to me, and
his guidance is always insightful and helpful,” he says. “The breadth of
pioneering work that I have learned about during my time in Duke BME has
helped to broaden my expertise.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

