

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# BME Design Symposium Highlights Student Projects

May 2, 2018

Event showcased projects ranging from an early HIV detection test to a
intravesicular device to cool the brain

Since its inception in the spring of 2017, the BME Design Symposium has marked
the end of a successful semester of design work, giving students a chance to
present their final projects to faculty and fellow biomedical engineering
students at Duke University.

The spring 2018 event was no exception, with projects ranging from an early
HIV detection test to an automated robotic cystoscope that could use machine
learning to map potential tumors for removal and biopsy.

Following a series of two-minute formal presentations from each team, students
and faculty perused the work and watched demonstrations. This gave them a
chance to ask follow-up questions and fund their favorite designs in the form
of “Tosh Bucks”—fake bills decorated with the face of Ashutosh Chilkoti,
department chair of BME. During this time, select BME professors also acted as
judges to determine which teams showcased the best design.

While the open poster session had been a staple at each symposium, this year’s
event also included an Escape Room—a new feature created by the BME Design
Fellows that required participants to solve a series of BME-related puzzles to
exit a room. With the theme of escaping a hospital lockdown after a viral
outbreak, students had to work with various prototyping tools like 3D printed
materials and circuit breadboards to solve each puzzle to escape.

“We developed this idea after going to a real escape room event,” says Kevin
Caves, one of the BME professors who leads the Design Fellows program. “It
gave us a chance to do something really different than previous years while
building on their practical engineering experience, and I think the students
had fun with it.”

Ultimately, Brian Chan, Adam Davidovich, Neil Gupta and Alim Ladha received
first place for their project, “CBTech,” where they demonstrated how they
could easily and cheaply produce cannabinoids, which are FDA approved to treat
nausea caused by chemotherapy and appetite loss from HIV/AIDS medications.
Second place went to the team of Danielle Dawes, Stephanie Hatz and Jillian
Udell for their “DECI Counting Assistant,” a device that assists employees at
the Durham Exchange Club Industries in counting and bagging 20 dye chips.
Students and faculty selected “A Breath of Fresh Air” project for the People’s
Choice award. The respiratory muscle training device, created by Diana
Arguijo, Sarah Jacobs, Emelina Vienneau and Kayla-Wright Freeman, was
developed to fully automate and incorporate both inspiratory and expiratory
training capabilities into a single device. Finally, the judges awarded Erin
Emmons, Hannah Grossman and Souhailia Noor with the "Graduate Award." Their
project, titled "Ergo_scopy," aimed to improve the ergonimics of a GI
endoscope by adding an attachment to the dial.

The symposium, which included work from courses taught by Joseph Izatt, Mike
Lynch, Paolo Maccarini, Robert Malkin and Mark Palmeri, illustrated the
expanding focus on innovative design within the BME department and celebrated
the practical design experience students cultivated during their time at Duke.

“This event gives us a chance to see what the students have been working on
all semester,” said Elizabeth Bucholz, associate director of undergraduate
studies in BME. “It really gives them a chance to show off, and we’re happy to
see it grow every year.”

Study Biomedical Engineering at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

