

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Boyuan Chen: Making General-Purpose Robots That Are Smarter and Self-Aware

July 18, 2022 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

The new Duke MEMS faculty member is developing robots that will help release
human creativity

Boyuan Chen has joined the faculty in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering & Materials Science (MEMS) in Duke University’s Pratt School of
Engineering beginning July 1. With a vision toward making robots more self-
aware and intelligent, Chen adds to the strong momentum in research and
education regarding autonomous systems in the department.

Chen joins Duke MEMS as an assistant professor from Columbia University, where
he recently completed his PhD and MS in computer science. He will lead the
General Robotics Lab, which aims to build robots that can perform general
purpose tasks in the world, as opposed to highly specialized robots that
perform a single task.

“I am interested in developing generalist robots that learn, act and improve
by perceiving and interacting with the complex and dynamic world. Ultimately,
I hope that robots and machines can be equipped with high-level cognitive
skills to assist people and unleash human creativity,” Chen said.

Right now, robots need humans to take care of them and tell them what to do.

> "Ultimately, I hope that robots and machines can be equipped with high-level
> cognitive skills to assist people and unleash human creativity."
>
> **Boyuan Chen**

Describing himself as a “full stack” roboticist, meaning an expert in both
engineering the hardware and software to control robots, Chen is a well-
rounded researcher with an undergraduate degree in biomedical and electrical
engineering from Jilin University, in China. At Duke he plans to continue
working across disciplines, to use artificial intelligence to develop robots
that can perceive changes in their surroundings and learn to adapt.

He has already had success in co-developing an animatronic robot face that
learned how to mimic human facial expressions by imaging a “self-image” of
what itself would look like under different expressions.

This mimicry is a skill human children develop as babies as they learn to
associate meanings, such as “happy” with a smile. At about the age of three or
four years old, a child begins developing what neuroscientists call Theory of
Mind, which is the ability to understand that other people have their own
thoughts and desires separately from the child’s. Theory of mind enables
humans to make inferences about others’ beliefs, intentions or desires, form
mental pictures from that information, and then use them to understand and
predict behavior.

This concept of Theory of Mind is what inspired Chen's research.

“A lot of my research actually tries to bake this capability of visualization
into robots,” he said. “So, I have built a robot that looks at another robot
and, without talking to it, can predict the future movements of it.”

In the laboratory setting, this takes the form of a game of hide-and-seek
between two robots, based not on logically calculated movements programmed
into the robots, but on responsiveness between them as they learn through
trial-and-error how to predict each other’s movements and visual perspectives.

Moving forward, this month, Chen has published an article in Science Robotics
to study how to enable robots to have a “sense of self” in the 3D world.
Robots, for the first time, can model its entire morphology without any human
supervision.

Chen also wants to go beyond the concept of robots interacting with other
robots to also include robots learning and responding to the physical
environment. For example, Chen said that a walking robot cannot currently
adjust to a wind gust the way humans intuitively lean into it. He wants to
develop robots smart enough to detect and adapt to such environmental changes.

“Learning abstract and interpretable information of the physical world from
noisy and complex high-dimensional observation is essential to develop robots
from lab to the real world,” Chen explained.

Because this work is highly interdisciplinary, Chen said he knew Duke is the
perfect place for him to conduct it. The proximity of the schools of medicine
and engineering—within a few minutes’ walking distance of one another—will
enable him to work on robotics for medicine and healthcare more easily and
efficiently. Another deciding factor he said was the combination of materials
science and mechanical engineering in the same department.

“This is where I can find my collaborators,” Chen said.

Chen also was drawn to Duke by the quality of the students and their
excitement for learning more about robotics.

Personally, he is also excited about the lifestyle that Durham and the larger
Research Triangle area of North Carolina offer, as a change of pace from the
last six years living in a New York City apartment. Nearby walking trails
around the Duke University campus, nature preserves and Eno River, as well as
the Sarah P. Duke Gardens, all fill a growing list of his planned
explorations.

“Both my wife and I really love nature and, in addition to the cat we brought
with us, we also adopted a puppy in Durham,” he said.

Chen is also thrilled by Duke’s and the surrounding area’s art scene. When he
is not building or programming robots, he plays piano, paints and produces
Chinese calligraphy.

## Related News

July 14, 2022 | Columbia University

###  Boyuan Chen, Now With Duke MEMS, Develops a Robotic Arm That Learns to
Imagine Itself

August 31, 2021

### Duke Takes Top Prizes in RoboSub Competition

June 26, 2020

### NASA Climbs Aboard with Support for Robot Project

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

