

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Bridge Between Engineering and Medicine

May 5, 2019

How the Duke BME MD-PhD program prepares graduate students for a career in
medicine

Duke University Medical Center is a quick hop, skip and jump away from Duke’s
Department of Biomedical Engineering––but most people prefer to walk. The
proximity fosters a plethora of collaborative research and programs between
Duke’s medical school and Duke BME, including the Duke Medical Scientist
Training Program (MSTP).

Founded in 1966, Duke’s MSTP was among the very first MD-PhD programs in the
country established by the National Institutes of Health to train physician-
scientists. In similar programs, medical students complete two years of
coursework followed by two years of clinical rotations; the Duke curriculum
concentrates all coursework in the first year followed by a year in the clinic
and a third year devoted to independent research. For MSTP students, that year
extends to several as they earn a PhD. After completing their doctorate,
medical students spend a final year in the clinic before they graduate.

For students who opt to pursue their PhD in biomedical engineering—such as
recent MD-PhD graduates Drs. Veronica Rotemberg and Christina Behrend—the
program creates opportunities to pursue research that they can eventually move
out of the lab and into the clinic.

Rotemberg (PhD’14), a dermatologist at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
Center (MSK), completed her PhD in BME Professor Kathy Nightingale’s lab,
where she used ultrasound imaging to study how changing pressure affects the
stiffness of liver tissue. Today, patients with advanced liver disease often
need a liver biopsy so physicians can better understand their degree of liver
cirrhosis. By correlating liver stiffness estimates with portal venous
pressure, Rotemberg explored whether ultrasound imaging-based methods may be
used in the future to determine pressure gradient noninvasively.

“When I was looking for a lab I knew I wanted to work with someone who was
doing translational research that had the potential to really impact patients
that still had a quantitative and technical focus,” says Rotemberg. “I met
with Kathy Nightingale and Mark Palmeri, who was an MD-PhD student in her lab.
They were working with real patients and the work required a lot of technical
development and a thorough understanding of the mechanics of human tissue. It
was a perfect combination for me.”

Now director of the Imaging Informatics Program at MSK, Rotemberg has focused
her imaging research on skin disease. Building on her PhD research, she’s
developing high-resolution approaches to measure skin elasticity to aid in the
diagnosis and tracking of skin lesions. She’s also working on tools for
automated diagnosis that might allow physicians to determine whether a lesion
is benign or malignant from a clinical photo.

“One of the main reasons I went to Duke for graduate school was the BME
program, and there were structural aspects of the BME department that are
uniquely suited to an MD-PhD student,” says Rotemberg. “One of my roles was to
go to the clinic and actually image patients in the hepatology clinic. As
compared to other research projects for MSTP students, the opportunity to
participate in research that directly involved patients helped me to continue
to develop as a physician and scientist at the same time.”

“Kathy was also a really wonderful mentor for me, and I’ve benefited so much
from that over the years,” says Rotemberg. “Now that I’m in the position of
mentoring others I’m realizing just how impactful her guidance was for me as a
scientist, as a professional, and as someone committed to mentoring
students––especially women––in biomedical engineering.”

Behrend (PhD’17) is currently a first-year resident in neurology at the
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. As a student in BME professor
Warren Grill’s lab, Behrend carried out research on the basic physiology of
Parkinson’s Disease, a neurodegenerative disorder that affects movement and
causes tremors, to guide the design of deep brain stimulation devices that can
alleviate disease symptoms.

“By understanding more precisely which pathological neural signatures are
important to target with electrical stimulation, we can design efficient
stimulation therapies that deliver less energy to the brain tissue overall,”
says Behrend. “That maximizes the battery life of the implanted devices, which
means patients need fewer replacement surgeries. It’s a great example of how
basic research can have a clear clinical impact.”

As she progresses through her residency program, Behrend hopes to get involved
in clinical research to study disease processes and examine how new and
improved technologies can help treat neurological disorders like Parkinson’s.
“Duke BME was a highly collaborative environment and it has incredibly strong
ties to the medical school, which is evident through the MSTP,” she says.
“Half of my MD-PhD class did their PhDs in engineering, and they all had
opportunities to interact with physicians and patients. This collaboration was
not only easy but welcomed, especially because Duke BME students bring so many
skills to the table.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

