

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bridgeman Wins Office of Naval Research Young Investigator Award

February 2, 2023 | By Ken Kingery

Award will help unlock the potential of historically underappreciated control
theory to solve modern challenges of controlling fleets of autonomous vehicles

Leila Bridgeman, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke University, has been awarded a prestigious Office of Naval
Research (ONR) Young Investigator Award. The program identifies and supports
researchers within the first seven years of their careers who show exceptional
promise for doing creative research. For the next three years, the $450,000
grant will support Bridgeman in her quest to develop new control theories that
will allow large groups of unmanned vehicles in the air, on the water and
undersea coordinate their movement efficiently and effectively.

“This isn’t just a problem for the Navy. Delivery drones flying in cities or
fleets of autonomous vehicles on the ground or in the air face similar
challenges,” said Bridgeman, who joined Duke’s faculty in 2018. “Individual
vehicles within a fleet can have completely different kinds of behavior and
performance specifications, but they still need to coordinate in some way.
Even competitors want to avoid hitting one another.”

> “This isn’t just a problem for the Navy. Delivery drones flying in cities or
> fleets of autonomous vehicles on the ground or in the air face similar
> challenges."
>
> leila bridgeman

Getting dozens or even hundreds of autonomous vehicles to behave in a
coordinated fashion is an enormous challenge. Besides the sheer scale of the
problem, communication lines between separate entities are never 100%
reliable. They also often don’t want to share their plans and status, and even
if they do, their own sensors have limited precision.

“Basically, we’re always working off information that is a bit wrong and a bit
outdated,” explained Bridgeman. “If you’re not careful, when you optimize
performance while designing highly agile maneuvers, you can easily make a
vehicle that over-reacts to this wrong information. Even worse, other vehicles
can begin over-reacting to that over-reaction, propagating and amplifying the
mistake. Then things really fall apart.”

To fight the reign of chaos, control theorists develop algorithms and theorems
that ensure stability, which precludes these over-reactions. The techniques
they use to impose stability, however, usually couple all individuals
together. The math behind them then necessarily becomes exponentially more
complicated as the group gets large. Worse still, you need a unified framework
to describe the systems, which is inappropriate in the case of an entire
fleet, where different drones and boats might be trying to fulfill different
obligations.

While the usual techniques don’t quite work, control theory has a history of
more powerful results. “I feel like I’m delving back into the history of
control theory and going to this treasure trove of long underused theorems,”
Bridgeman said. From this `treasure trove,’ Bridgeman found inspiration for a
framework that can break a large network into smaller groups of objects or
vehicles coupled together. Rather than worrying about controlling 10
submarines, for example, it might tackle the more manageable task of
controlling five groups of two submarines.

> “In my lab alone, I see connections to control of power systems
> incorporating renewable resources, reducing the energy footprint of server
> farms, and even autonomous ultrasound design for breast cancer screening.”
>
> leila bridgeman

“The cool thing about this approach is it allows us to break down this huge
question into smaller, much more tractable questions,” Bridgeman said. “This
also allows us to give different performance criteria to different assets and
use more varied methods for assessing how they interact. One might use a lot
of machine learning and data while another might build a model from first
physics principles. Either way, it allows us to take advantage of whatever it
is that we actually know.”

This line of research holds a special connection to Bridgeman, and not just
because it’s her field of passion. This specific project, she says, combines
all of the research projects her graduate students have been pursuing during
her time at Duke. Most of the ideas for this work were inspired by
applications outside of drone control, and its impacts will also go beyond
this subject.

“The fundamental results we’re deriving here will contribute to so many other
areas,” Bridgeman said. “In my lab alone, I see connections to control of
power systems incorporating renewable resources, reducing the energy footprint
of server farms, and even autonomous ultrasound design for breast cancer
screening.”

## Related News

January 20, 2023 | Duke Graduate School

### Duke MEMS' Leila Bridgeman Honored with Graduate Dean's Award for
Excellence in Mentoring

November 01, 2017

### Leila Bridgeman: Controlling the Robots of Tomorrow

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

