

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bridging Communities in Rwanda

August 12, 2015

Originally posted by Duke Global

_All photos courtesy of Connor Guest_

Before Duke engineering students could build a suspension bridge across the
upper headwaters of the Nile this summer, they had to learn to communicate
with their Rwandan partners. Unfamiliar with the local dialect of Kinyarwanda,
they got to know the community of Cyohoha, Rwanda by sharing smiles and meals
before learning each other’s languages through gestures and songs.

Despite language barriers, with only eight weeks to build a bridge across the
Nyabarongo River, the group quickly learned to operate as a cohesive team. The
nine Duke undergraduates, part of student organization Duke Engineers for
International Development (DEID), joined forces with Rwandan engineers,
Bridges to Prosperity professionals and local volunteers to link villages on
either side of the river.

The bridge was a welcome sight to the nearly 5,000 people living in the
surrounding areas who will now rely on it to access schools, markets and
medical facilities. Cyohoha’s previous bridge, which supported about 1,000
crossings each day by schoolchildren, patients seeking medical care, farmers
herding cattle, businesspeople carrying large loads, and other community
members, had no side barriers and couldn’t stand up to the region’s seasonal
floods, making it dangerous and sometimes impossible to cross.

The Rwanda project’s co-lead from Duke, mechanical engineering major Caroline
Ayanian, said the previous bridge deteriorated almost completely within weeks
of their arrival. The new bridge they helped build, she said, should remain
sturdy for the next 20 years, and the students returned with lessons and
friendships that will last just as long.

DEID co-president Matt Tobin said the projects offer Duke students leadership
experience and a sense of international responsibility.

“These projects change the traveler in so many ways that it’s hard to
describe,” he said. “From an academic standpoint, it’s invaluable to have that
hands-on experience and to understand how things change on the fly, but
there’s also the human aspect—understanding the world you’re serving as an
engineer.”

Tobin also co-led a group this summer in Honduras, where six DEID members
worked to implement a safe system for filtering gently used water from wash
basins and returning that water to the environment.

Leading up to their international projects, DEID students worked with faculty
advisor Dr. David Schaad and other faculty mentors and graduate students to
design their projects. Most groups then partnered with local organizations to
identify community needs and implement appropriate solutions.

Tobin’s group joined forces with Un Mundo, an international development
organization working in rural El Pital, which taught the students about the
local area and connected them with key community members and project leaders.

Other DEID groups this summer constructed clean cook stoves in Costa Rica,
built a primary school in Uganda and began cleaning up a creek here in Durham.

While the groups hope to have made a lasting impact on the communities in
which they worked, those communities have also instilled in the students a
sense of what it means to belong to a global community.

“You see this way of life,” Tobin said, “and you start to understand the
problems the world is facing—problems that you, as the rising generation, have
been tasked to solve.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

