

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bringing a Global Perspective to the Pharmaceutical Industry

May 3, 2019

From undergraduate research to corporate career, Bianca Bracht is on a mission
to increase access to health care

Most of the grocery stores in the United States have a designated pharmacy,
where relief from a persistent cough or fever can easily be purchased along
with a loaf of bread. This ease of access has made it easy to forget that
nearly two billion people across the globe don’t have consistent access to
medicine, whether it’s for the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
or pills that can alleviate a painful earache.

With minors in global health, chemistry and Chinese, Bianca Bracht used her
global perspective to explore this problem during her time as an undergraduate
student in Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering.

“I knew I wanted a role that could bridge technology and health care to make a
positive impact,” says Bracht. “Initially I thought that meant that I’d pursue
a career in the medical device industry, but my time in Duke BME also showed
me that there was a real need for engineers in pharmaceuticals, especially in
areas where there’s a lack of access to care and affordable drugs.”

This came into focus during her junior year, when she began to work on the
Pratt Pouch. Created by Professor of the Practice Robert Malkin and his team,
the Pratt Pouch is a ketchup-like packet containing antiretroviral drugs that
can be administered to newborns to prevent mother-to-child transmission of
HIV.

The innovative packaging preserves pre-measured doses of medicine for up to a
year without refrigeration, making it ideal for use in resource-limited areas.
Bracht worked on the Pratt Pouch as a Grand Challenge Scholar at Duke, testing
the packaging and determining what other kinds of medications could be safely
preserved in the pouch.

“My work on the Pratt Pouch inspired me to pursue work in the pharmaceutical
industry,” says Bracht. “The Pratt Pouch obviously focuses on more low-
resource settings, but there is a lot of opportunity within the industry to
make small changes, like new ways to store medicine, that have a large impact
on patients worldwide. My goal was to increase access to healthcare globally,
and I looked for roles that fit into that category.”

After graduating from Duke in 2015, Bracht accepted a job at Pfizer, working
at their Rocky Mount plant in North Carolina for nine months before moving to
India to help start up operations at a new site. These roles were in the
generic Sterile Injectable drug business, and involved exploring ways to
improve manufacturing practices through production advancements and
standardization. Now, Bracht is back in North Carolina, this time in Pfizer’s
Biotechnology business focusing on their ongoing investment to build a gene
therapy manufacturing site.

“It’s exciting because this is the type of work that will help people access
treatments that may not previously been available outside of a lab—it’s a
different way of looking at my goal of ‘increasing access’,” she says. “I’m
lucky because I’ve had a wide variety of career experiences in a short amount
of time. At the end of the day we make medicine to help people, and I’m very
passionate about what I do.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

