

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Building Biomedical Engineering Capacity through Educational Partnerships

October 17, 2017

_BME's_ Monty Reichert discusses the value of international educational
partnerships in a two-part editorial in the Annals of Biomedical Engineering

_This feature was originally published by theDuke Global Health Institute_

Engagement with international partners is one of the foundations of global
health. This engagement can take many forms, such as collaborating on
research, providing healthcare or developing educational partnerships.

Although less frequently pursued in today’s academic landscape, educational
partnerships between U.S. institutions and institutions in low- and middle-
income countries have the potential to be strategic, mutually beneficial
ventures for global health, engineering, medicine and other academic programs.

Master of Science in Global Health alumna Brittany Ploss ’16 and William
Reichert, professor of biomedical engineering and global health, are the lead
authors of a recent two-part editorial in the _Annals of Biomedical
Engineering_ that highlights the value of international educational
partnerships for medical device design.

#### EDITORIAL SHOWCASES BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING PARTNERSHIPS

The articles emphasize the critical need for robust, low-cost health
technology solutions in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), in contrast with the
shortage of biomedical engineers in this region. In fact, 68 percent of SSA
countries have only one or less biomedical engineers per million people.

Part I catalogs bachelor’s level degree-granting biomedical engineering (BME)
programs and BME professional societies in SSA. In Part II, the authors make a
case for BME educational partnerships between U.S. and SSA institutions,
highlighting several successful partnerships and providing helpful tips for
institutions that may be considering establishing such a program.

#### WHAT’S IN IT FOR THE PARTNERS?

According to Reichert, educational partnerships in biomedical engineering
offer significant mutual benefits that go beyond the sharing of educational
resources and teaching practices across institutions.

Through these programs, U.S. students and faculty who are interested in
designing medical devices for use in low-resource settings can learn about the
needs, challenges, assets, capacity and culture of the country of the
partnership. This knowledge can facilitate more culturally appropriate design.

These educational partnerships also give students a broader perspective on
innovation as they come to understand that expensive, resource-demanding
technological solutions are often not workable in low- and middle-income
countries. Designing biomedical solutions with resource constraints in mind
fosters students’ creativity and resourcefulness.

“Designing devices for the U.S. or European markets uses a very different
skillset than a device that can be implemented globally,” said Ploss.
“Encouraging students in the U.S. to think more broadly about where many of
their devices will end up can help universities develop more sustainability-
minded engineers.”

And in addition to these more practical benefits, Reichert says, these
programs offer a mechanism not only for facilitating collaboration but also
for building personal connections and establishing cross-cultural friendships.

“When people with mutual interests become friends, magic can happen,” notes
Reichert.

#### BME PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN DUKE AND MAKERERE UNIVERSITY

One example of international educational collaboration highlighted in the
article is Duke’s BME partnership with Makerere University (MUK) in Kampala,
Uganda—one of DGHI’s priority partners. Reichert and BME chair Ashutosh
Chilkoti spearheaded development of this program after Reichert spent the
2014-2015 academic year as a Fulbright Scholar teaching at MUK.

This partnership, which has received generous support from many areas within
Duke, includes two undergraduate design classes taught to Duke and MUK
students and a graduate program in BME that spans the two universities.

In the design classes—jointly taught by Reichert and Robert Ssekitoleko,
lecturer in biomedical engineering at MUK—students from both universities
collaborate to solve a healthcare-related problem for a Ugandan client. For
the graduate program, Ugandan biomedical engineering students spend two
semesters at Duke taking classes, then return to Uganda for their
dissertation.

Educational partnerships like this, says Reichert, hold the potential to
transform the mindset behind Sub-Saharan BME programs. “Historically in Sub-
Saharan Africa, the primary role of many biomedical engineers has been to
maintain and fix donated high-tech medical equipment, but they’re capable of
much more,” he said.

> “These collaborations can help programs, students and key stakeholders in
> partner countries expand their vision of what biomedical engineers can do.
> In these countries, there’s a desperate need to build capacity to prepare
> engineers to take an inventive, creative approach to addressing health care
> needs in their communities.” - Monty Reichert

Ssekitoleko concurs that the DUKE-MUK BME collaboration has broadened
students’ perspectives and fostered long-lasting friendships. In addition, he
said, “it’s led to an improved local perception of BME and has helped provide
access to Duke facilities, international awards and funding for student idea
prototyping.” Ssekitoleko also cited joint faculty grant proposals and
enhanced local staff skills as other beneficial outcomes of the partnership.

#### TIPS FOR ESTABLISHING EDUCATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS

In Part II, the authors—including faculty from a number of U.S. and African
universities—offer ten recommendations for institutions seeking to initiate
educational collaborations with Sub-Saharan partners. Recognizing that
establishing these relationships requires investment of time and money, they
share their recommendations (summarized below) in order of increasing effort
and cost:

  1. Make existing course materials available.
  2. Use distance learning technology to offer classes at both institutions.
  3. Offer existing or new online courses that cover priority BME topics.
  4. Start an Engineering World Health (EWH) chapter at the partner location that links with an EWH chapter at one’s own university.
  5. Bring BME students from the partner institution to one’s own university through existing “research experience for undergraduates” programs.
  6. Build in student visits to the partner institution around a course or internship in which students at both institutions participate.
  7. Work with the partner institution’s teaching staff to revise BME curriculum if needed.
  8. Bring students from the partner institution to study longer-term at one’s own university.
  9. Establish a design program that takes co-originated ideas from concept to prototype.
  10. Build research collaborations that address problems that are relevant to the partner institution.

Ssekitoleko adds that faculty exchanges, for example through the Fulbright
Fellowship program, and joint grants co-led by faculty at the partner
institutions can deepen and enhance collaboration. He also encourages faculty
involved in these partnerships to engage a wide range of local and
international stakeholders to contribute towards building the BME field.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

