

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Safer Route to Ultrasonic Therapy

January 2, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Microbeads allow ultrasonic waves to stimulate cells more safely

Researchers at Duke University have discovered a way to enhance the
effectiveness and safety of sonogenetics or ultrasonic modulation, emerging
techniques that use sound waves to control the behavior of individual neurons
or to promote tissue growth and wound healing in other cells.

Ultrasonic therapy often uses targeted ultrasound waves to create cavitation
bubbles—tiny balloons of rapidly oscillating air pockets that stretch nearby
cell membranes when they burst. This stretching can activate calcium ion
channels, causing a neuron to fire, or can signal the body’s repair mechanisms
to crank into overdrive.

If a bubble is too big or too close, however, the technique can damage or
destroy nearby cells. While this may be the desired result in applications
such as cancer therapy, researchers of sonogenetics typically want to avoid
damage.

In a new study, biomedical engineers found that by attaching microscopic beads
to receptors on the cell’s surface, they can produce the technique’s cell-
stretching, calcium-releasing effects much more safely.

The results appeared online the week of December 25, 2017 in the Proceedings
of the National Academy of Science.

“To get ion channels and pores in a cell’s membrane to open, you typically
have to stretch it very strong and very fast,” said Pei Zhong, the Anderson-
Rupp Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke. “But
we discovered that attaching microbeads to the cell’s surface amplifies the
cell’s response during cavitation and produces the same result with much less
risk of cellular injury.”

> “This strategy can stimulate the cells at a safe distance from the
> cavitation bubbles. The approach should make it much easier for researchers
> to safely use sonogenetics in human therapies.”

Produced when a force creates a void in liquid, cavitation bubbles can be
powerful enough to cause severe damage to ship propellers. While the
cavitation bubbles created during medical procedures are not nearly that
strong, they can still cause a lot of damage. And because of their speed and
randomness, it is very difficult to study their effects on nearby cells.

The new study is the first to use an experimental platform that Zhong’s team
built in 2015 to study sonoporation that reliably produces tandem cavitation
bubbles in exactly the same spot every time. By placing different types of
cells at various distances from the bubbles, researchers can begin to explore
the details of how cells respond.

For the first follow-up study to use the platform, Zhong chose to look at
calcium signaling.

“Calcium signaling regulates many important cellular functions, like muscle
contraction, neural communication, gene transcription and tissue growth,” said
Fenfang Li, a postdoctoral research fellow in Zhong’s laboratory and lead
author of the study. “Previous studies have shown that sonogenetics and
sonoporation causes a calcium response, which can make neurons fire or promote
healing in other cells, so we wanted to take a closer look.”

The results showed that cavitation bubbles actually produce two types of
calcium responses: slow waves and fast waves. But most interestingly, the
study showed that microbeads attached to the cell’s surface can catch some of
the bubbles’ energy so they tug at the membrane’s surface. This provides more
localized deformation—and a stronger calcium response—from a slower, softer
wave.

“This strategy can stimulate the cells at a safe distance from the cavitation
bubbles,” said Zhong. “The approach should make it much easier for researchers
to safely use sonogenetics in human therapies.”

This study was supported by the National Institutes of Health
(R03-EB017886-01A1, R01-AR48182, R37-DK052985-20) and the National Science
Foundation (1638442).

“Dynamics and Mechanisms of Intracellular Calcium Waves Elicited by Tandem
Bubble-Induced Jetting Flow.” Fenfang Li, Chen Yang, Fang Yuan, Defei Liao,
Thomas Li, Farshid Guilak, and Pei Zhong. PNAS, 2017. DOI:
10.1073/pnas.1713905115 ****

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

