

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Calderbank, Chilkoti Named Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors

December 16, 2014

The NAI recognizes academic inventors for their prolific spirit of innovation
in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that have made a tangible
impact on the quality of life, economic development and the welfare of society

Two faculty members from Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering have
been named fellows of the National Academy of Inventors (NAI): Robert
Calderbank, the Charles S. Sydnor Professor of Computer Science, professor of
electrical and computer engineering, and director of the Information
Initiative at Duke, and Ashutosh Chilkoti, professor and chair of the
biomedical engineering department.

Founded in 2010, the NAI recognizes academic inventors for their prolific
spirit of innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that
have made a tangible impact on the quality of life, economic development and
the welfare of society. This year’s list brings the total number of NAI
Fellows to 414, representing more than 150 prestigious research universities
and governmental and non-profit research institutions.

Included among all of the NAI Fellows are 61 presidents and senior leadership
of research universities and non-profit research institutes, 208 members of
the other National Academies (NAS, NAE, IOM), 21 inductees of the National
Inventors Hall of Fame, 16 recipients of the U.S. National Medal of Technology
and Innovation, 10 recipients of the U.S. National Medal of Science, 21 Nobel
Laureates, 11 Lemelson-MIT prize recipients, 107 AAAS Fellows, and 62 IEEE
Fellows, among other awards and distinctions.

Calderbank’s inventions lie mainly in the field of information theory, in
which he helped develop many communications technologies as vice president for
research at AT&T until 2004. One example is the use of space-time block coding
for wireless communication. Every time a cell phone talks to a base station
with more than one antenna, Calderbank’s invention is at work—and there are
about 10 billion cell phones in the world.

Two antennas at a base station provide two independent paths to a cell phone.
By spreading information across the two paths and using space-time signal
processing at the receiver, there is effectively a single channel that is
better than either path. Two paths are better than one, more spatial diversity
provides even better performance and space-time codes are incorporated in a
broad range of wireless standards.

In 1999, Chilkoti invented the first elastin-like polypeptide fusion, which
provided a new method to purify proteins without chromatography and opened a
new path to developing drugs with greater potency and fewer side effects. The
innovation launched a new avenue for drug delivery that is currently in
development by research groups worldwide, and launched the startup company
PhaseBio pharmaceuticals, where the technology is in late-stage clinical
trials for drugs to treat endocrine and metabolic disorders and heart disease.

Chilkoti and coworkers also developed a “nonfouling” polymer brush technology
that has been applied to novel immunoassays by a startup company Sentilus,
Inc., that he co-founded in 2012, and which was recently acquired by industry
giant Immucor. The technology provides a way to create a nonstick coating that
acts as a sort of Teflon for molecules and cells found in blood and was
developed into a microarray that can screen for many blood proteins at once
with very high sensitivity.

The NAI Fellows will be inducted by the Deputy U.S. Commissioner for Patent
Operations, from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), during
the 4th Annual Conference of the National Academy of Inventors, on 20 March
2015, at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

