

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cameron McIntyre: Improving Deep Brain Stimulation Through Entrepreneurship

August 21, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Cameron McIntyre will leverage interdisciplinary programs
at Duke to pursue technologies to clinically improve deep brain stimulation

Cameron McIntyre will join the faculty of the Department of Biomedical
Engineering and the Department of Neurosurgery at Duke University beginning
July 1, 2021. With nearly two decades of research focused on understanding the
mechanisms of deep brain stimulation, McIntyre will continue working to invent
new and improve existing technologies to treat ailments such as Parkinson’s
disease, epilepsy and depression.

## Cameron McIntyre

Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Neurosurgery (July 1, 2021)

**Hometown:** Marietta, Ohio

**Alma Maters:** Case Western Reserve University, Johns Hopkins University,
Emory University

**Representative Publication:** Petersen MV, Mlakar J, Haber SN, Parent M,
Smith Y, Strick PL, Griswold MA, McIntyre CC. Holographic reconstruction of
axonal pathways in the human brain. Neuron. 104(6):1056-1064, 2019

**Fun Facts:** Enjoys racing cars, road biking, and snowboarding

The founder of multiple startup companies in the realm of neuromodulation,
McIntyre will leverage the close ties and numerous entrepreneurial programs
between the Pratt School of Engineering and the School of Medicine to focus on
advances that can rapidly reach clinical applications.

“I don’t want to build the coolest new device just to see if it can be done, I
want to build a device that’s actually going to go into a commercial product,”
said McIntyre, who joins Duke from Case Western Reserve University, where he
founded the Case Neuromodulation Center. “One of the major considerations I
take when deciding on whether or not a project is in my wheelhouse is if I
think it will have a realistic impact in clinical medicine within five years.”

First introduced in 1987, deep brain stimulation sends electrical pulses deep
into the brains of people suffering from neurological motor control diseases
through wires implanted into an area of the brain called the basal ganglia.
While the therapy has been used regularly for decades, the specific mechanisms
behind why it works—and why it works so well for some patients and not
others—remain unclear.

## WHY DUKE?

> "One of the draws of Duke is that the neurosurgery department is tip-top and
> very interested in taking a step toward robotics in neurosurgery, which I am
> too. And to do that, you need the research infrastructure and resources to
> push these concepts to the next level. You also need a technology
> integration group to pull engineers, clinicians and theorists together to
> build these next-generation prototypes and start testing them. Duke has all
> of that in spades."
>
> —Cameron McIntyre

Research has shown that the frequency and patterns of electrical stimulation
can affect how well the treatment works, as can the “shape” of the electrical
waves being sent through the brain tissue. The placement of the electrodes is
also of vital importance, as a matter of millimeters can drastically influence
a patient’s response.

Because so much remains unknown and there are so many variables involved,
clinicians have long had to rely on a patient’s feedback to adjust the
stimulation to improve its efficacy. McIntyre’s first startup company created
a way to visualize the electrode’s placement and how the stimulation spreads
through nearby tissue, providing neurologists and neurosurgeons with a more
precise tool to make adjustments to the stimulation’s many parameters.

Dubbed the GUIDE DBS clinical programming system, its associated spinoff
company IntElect Medical Inc. was acquired by Boston Scientific in 2011, and
the technology is now being used by clinicians. McIntyre’s other two spinoff
companies, Surgical Information Sciences and Hologram Consultants Ltd., use
machine learning to identify target locations for surgical implants and
interactively visualize electrode placement in a holographic visual
environment, respectively.

“One of the draws of Duke is that the neurosurgery department is tip-top and
very interested in taking a step toward robotics in neurosurgery, which I am
too,” said McIntyre. “And to do that, you need the research infrastructure and
resources to push these concepts to the next level. You also need a technology
integration group to pull engineers, clinicians and theorists together to
build these next-generation prototypes and start testing them. Duke has all of
that in spades.”

Another draw for McIntyre is the numerous strings already tying him to Duke.
He was the first doctoral student mentored by Warren Grill, professor of
biomedical engineering and deep brain stimulation expert at Duke for more than
15 years. And Guillermo Sapiro, the James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering, is one of McIntyre’s partners in Surgical
Information Sciences.

He’s also looking forward to living close to the Virginia International
Raceway.

“I’ve spent most of my adult life racing cars,” said McIntyre. “Living within
40 minutes of one of the greatest race tracks in the nation is a huge bonus
for me.”

Over the next several years, McIntyre will form new collaborations to pursue
research aimed at the niche market of neurosurgical technology integration
with a focus on Parkinson’s disease. Because it’s a movement disorder, he
says, Parkinson’s patients provide immediate feedback as to whether a new
approach is working or not. And if new neuromodulation technologies can be
proven to work for Parkinson’s, it will lay the foundations for researchers to
begin applying them to other brain disorders such as epilepsy and depression
over the next decade.

McIntyre will also likely be making his first foray into classroom teaching in
the coming years at Duke. While the specifics have not been hammered out, he
envisions creating an upper-level class focusing on medical software design
and deployment.

“People in industry are always telling me how they’d love to hire people with
even an introductory understanding of what it takes to create an FDA-approved
software platform that goes along with these medical devices,” said McIntyre.
“Not building the surgical robots, but building the software to run them, and
understanding the process of validation, FDA paperwork, marketing deployment
and other things that go beyond just the initial design of a software
prototype.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

