

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Campus Toastmasters Club Hosts Open House Sept. 23

September 16, 2014 | By April Dudash

PRATTically Speaking Toastmasters is hosting an open house from noon to 1
p.m., Sept. 23, in room 125 of Hudson Hall.

_Originally published inDuke Today_

When Danielle Lester was invited by a friend to attend a campus PRATTically
Speaking Toastmasters meeting, she felt a little intimidated. The club, which
meets in the Pratt School of Engineering and helps individuals develop public
speaking and leadership skills, has its members give speeches and then the
group critiques their form.

Soon after, Lester became a member, giving her first speech over the summer
about growing up in an immigrant home, where her family speaks Italian and
Sundays are about coming together for family meals.

“It benefits me for work, as far as speaking in meetings, and just has helped
me overall in building my confidence,” said Lester, a staff specialist in the
Duke School of Medicine’s Office of the Registrar, about Toastmasters. “The
members help you. They really are mentoring you through developing your skills
to be a better speaker.”

PRATTically Speaking Toastmasters is hosting an open house from noon to 1
p.m., Sept. 23, in room 125 of Hudson Hall. Guests, who do not need to be
members to attend, will be able to enjoy cupcakes and pizza while meeting
Toastmasters members. The club, which is open to the public, meets on the
first and third Tuesday of the month.

“We have a supportive club environment and specific activities that will help
you speak and present compellingly, think quickly and clearly on your feet,
listen effectively and offer others constructive feedback, become a strong
leader, and build self-confidence,” said Jessica Bolton, a Ph.D. student in
Duke’s Department of Psychology and Neuroscience and the club’s vice president
for public relations.

Duke is home to two other Toastmasters groups – the Duke Toastmasters Club and
Blue Devil Toastmasters.

The Duke Toastmasters Club meets in the Board Meeting Room of the Duke Credit
Union on the second, third and fourth Wednesdays of each month at 7 a.m.

Blue Devil Toastmasters meets in the Duke Human Resources Building, 705 Broad
St., on the first and third Friday of every month. Both clubs welcome visitors
and are open to the public.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

