

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Cancer Microbiome Reveals Which Bacteria Live in Tumors

January 13, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers clean up data to identify the bugs better

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have devised an algorithm to remove
contaminated microbial genetic information from The Cancer Genome Atlas
(TCGA). With a clearer picture of the microbiota living in various organs in
both healthy and cancerous states, researchers will now be able to find new
biomarkers of disease and better understand how numerous cancers affect the
human body.

In the first study using the newly decontaminated dataset, the researchers
have already discovered that normal and cancerous organ tissues have a
slightly different microbiota composition, that bacteria from these diseased
sites can enter the bloodstream, and that this bacterial information could
help diagnose cancer and predict patient outcomes.

The results appear online on December 30, 2020 in the journal Cell Host &
Microbe.

TCGA is a landmark cancer genomics program that molecularly characterized over
20,000 primary cancer and matched healthy samples spanning 33 cancer types. It
has produced more than 2.5 million gigabytes of “omic” data. The atlas
includes which DNA is present, what epigenetic markers are on the DNA, which
DNA is turned on and which proteins are being produced. It is freely available
for public use.

One study from the atlas data revealed an abundance of Fusobacterium nucleatum
in colorectal cancer, which has since been shown to be indicative of stage,
survival, metastasis and even drug responses of this kind of cancer.

Many more studies have searched for such bacterial biomarkers, however few
have been discovered. A large reason for this is contamination. When bacteria
get introduced into the samples accidentally by the laboratories, it becomes
difficult to discern which species were actually in the samples to begin with.
While similar microbiome studies using microbe-rich material such as feces can
overcome small amounts of contamination, the relatively miniscule samples
taken from live human organs and tumor samples cannot.

When examining a subset of TCGA sequencing data, previous analyses found that
microbial DNA from a number of species was the result of lab contamination.

“All microbiota studies are plagued by the notion that if you find a microbe,
was it really in the tissue or was it contamination introduced during
processing?” said Xiling Shen, the Hawkins Family Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering at Duke. “We’ve invented a method that can extract the
microbes that were truly in each sample and used it to build what we’ve called
The Cancer Microbiome Atlas, which will be a tremendous resource for the
community and allow us to understand how cancer alters an organ’s microbiome.”

The method for removing contamination from TCGA data was invented by Anders
Dohlman, a graduate student in Shen’s laboratory. Dohlman first compared the
microbiome signatures between cancer tissues from different organs and blood,
and ruled out contaminant species that showed up indiscriminately. He then
compared the microbiome signatures of identical samples that were processed at
separate sites, ranging from Harvard to Baylor. Dohlman concluded that the
microbial species that can only be detected from a specific site would be the
contaminants, allowing him to assign a unique contamination signature for each
site.

“A big challenge in this process was mixed-evidence species, which are
bacteria that are both a contaminant and endogenous to the tissue,” said
Dohlman. “But because TCGA has so many different types of data, we were able
to tease it out. Big data really helps!”

> “We’ve invented a method that can extract the microbes that were truly in
> each sample and used it to build what we’ve called The Cancer Microbiome
> Atlas, which will be a tremendous resource for the community and allow us to
> understand how cancer alters an organ’s microbiome.”
>
> \- Xiling shen

The effort is already paying dividends in a variety of ways. After using
Dohlman’s decontamination algorithm, the researchers took a close look at the
microbiota signatures of samples taken from colorectal cancer patients. They
discovered two unique groups of bacteria frequently found together, one of
which appears to be associated with patient survival.

The researchers also discovered that some cancers do indeed alter the
microbiome of their resident organs. It might be, Shen reasons, that tumors
alter an organ’s microenvironment, making it more or less hospitable to
different microbial species. And by looking for microbial signatures within
patient blood samples, they also found that, despite conventional wisdom to
the contrary, some bacteria does find its way into the bloodstream, which
could also provide an indication of a cancer’s progress.

“There has been a sort of crisis in the field about whether or not high-
profile papers can be reproduced, owing to the challenge of contamination,”
said Shen. “For example, while one center would be able to reproduce its
results, another center would not. This explains why: Each center has its own
very consistent bias. (Its own resident microbe contaminants.) In the future,
new studies can use our method to remove this bias and reproduce results, and
research centers might be able to use their bias we’ve identified to mitigate
their contamination.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R35GM122465,
DK119795) and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (W911NF1920111).

CITATION: “The Cancer Microbiome Atlas: A Pan-Cancer Comparative Analysis to
Distinguish Tissue-Resident Microbiota from Contaminants.” Anders B. Dohlman,
Diana Arguijo Mendoza, Shengli Ding, Michael Gao, Holly Dressman, Iliyan D.
Iliev, Steven M. Lipkin, Xiling Shen. Cell Host & Microbe, 2021. DOI:
10.1016/j.chom.2020.12.001

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

