

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Catching Waves

July 26, 2021

Duke ECE’s Steven Cummer, the William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of
Engineering, discusses new metamaterials research in this Q&A– and explains
why invisibility paint is not on the horizon

**metamaterials** (noun, plural): engineered structures that manipulate waves
to “bend” light, sound and other kinds of waves in ways that produce effects
outside of conventional physics.

Duke ECE faculty pioneered the field of metamaterials. Watch this video for a
simple explanation of how metamaterials function:

## 1\. What makes Duke ECE strong in metamaterials research?

For one thing, we have great breadth within Duke ECE. Between myself, David
Smith, Willie Padilla, Natasha Litchinitser and Maiken Mikkelsen, we do just
about everything—acoustics, radio frequencies, optical, terahertz. And we’re
all doing that, to some extent, in an applied way.

Another factor is the presence of so many strong collaborators in the
department and the school. For example, we recently had an idea for a new way
of controlling ultrasound waves, and we needed a transistor-like structure
that we could print on top of a specific kind of crystal. In that case I was
able to walk down the hall and ask someone with exactly that expertise in non-
traditional transistor-like structures (Duke ECE professor Aaron Franklin) for
his thoughts.

I think that’s true across all the metamaterials work going on here at Duke.
It’s easy to find an expert to fold into the space you want to work in.

## 2\. What work is happening in your lab right now that you’re excited about?

One really exciting collaboration we have is with Duke MEMS professor Tony
Huang, who is an expert in acoustic tweezers. Acoustic tweezers use ultrasound
waves to push small particles through fluids. They can move the particles
toward a target, spin them, hold them in place, or separate one kind of
particle from another.

One approach that Tony has taken to control these particles is to load a chip
with a lot of ultrasound transducers that generate waves at different points
to push the particles around. Another approach—this is where my own research
comes in—is to create the waves on the outside of the chip but then use
passive metamaterial structures to perform the wave control function.

The size of the structure must match the wavelength of the wave that it’s
trying to control. Audio frequencies are large, so the structures that control
them can be large. Ultrasound wavelengths are measured in millimeters, so the
corresponding controlling structures are only hundreds of microns across. So,
we’re learning to scale down from our prior work. We’ve been experimenting
with using 3D printed molds to cast very small structures made of silicone
polymer, which is a material that works well in water and allows ultrasound
waves to travel through it.

## 3\. What are the big research challenges in metamaterials right now, in
your opinion?

There are all kinds of great ideas that work… partly. If you review the last
20 years of metamaterials work, you’ll see there have been a ton of really
interesting theoretical ideas that have emerged, showing different ways of
controlling waves that we didn’t appreciate before. Negative refraction,
cloaking, acoustic cloaking… These ideas are all amazing theoretically, but
they all have limits as far as practical implementation. You can’t make a
cloaking shell for a large object that’s super thin, for example. The shell
needs to be thick enough to capture and redirect the wave energy to where it
needs to go to render the object effectively invisible. That just can’t be
done with a shell that is much, much thinner than the object being hidden.

**wave** (noun): the disturbance that transfers energy from one place to
another place.

> "Finding practical design problems that metamaterials and metamaterial ideas
> can help solve is the most interesting thing about the field."

So, to me, finding practical design problems that metamaterials and
metamaterial ideas can help solve is the most interesting thing about the
field. It’s hard to do that—people read popular articles about metamaterials
that lead them to believe we can cloak anything, with anything. A potential
collaborator might ask us, for example, if we can develop a paint that’s two
nanometers thick and will make a building invisible. And the answer is no—they
cannot have that! There’s sometimes some back-and-forth between what’s desired
and what’s possible. And if we’re lucky, there’s something in the middle
that’s a significant improvement on existing technology.

## 4\. Are there opportunities to participate in metamaterials research at
Duke at the undergraduate level? If so, what kind of background is necessary?

As far as background, what’s helpful is an interest in the physics of waves.
You can of course be interested in other things as well, but if you hate
physics, then metamaterials is probably not a great space to be in, at least
on the theory side. That said, there are parts of the research that are not
strictly related to metamaterials, but more about developing relevant
components that help support metamaterials research. For example, students
interested in 3D printing and exploring the limits of the smallest structures
that can be reliably made, might be a good fit for my lab—that would be super
helpful skill for us to have.

## 5\. What about at the graduate level—what makes a successful student?

Many of the graduate students I have in my lab working in acoustic
metamaterials have backgrounds in acoustics, and those working in
electromagnetic metamaterials have backgrounds in electromagnetics and
antennas. But as an undergraduate you really only scratch the surface of
metamaterials anyway, so the depth of your technical background isn’t
critical. It’s more about motivation. What is it you really like to do? What
scientific papers do you really enjoy reading on your own—what resonates? When
interviewing students who might be interested in joining my group, I try to
figure out whether we’re interested in solving the same kinds of problems.

When I look back at the graduate students who have passed through my group,
I’m happiest when there’s been a signature paper published that we’re both
proud of. If there’s been a new contribution to the field, if people have paid
attention, and if you, the student, did most of the heavy lifting so that you
can call it your own, I call that a success.

## Related News

September 25, 2019

### Machine Learning Finds New Metamaterial Designs for Energy Harvesting

February 13, 2019

### Liberating Data to Discover New Polymer Nanocomposites and Metamaterials

September 04, 2018

### Duke-Northrop Grumman Partnership Seeks to Unflatten Metamaterial Antennas

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

