

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Catheter Innovation Destroys Dangerous Biofilms

March 25, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

New design from Duke engineers could reduce threat of infection from millions
of urinary catheters

For the millions of people forced to rely on a plastic tube to eliminate their
urine, developing an infection is nearly a 100 percent guarantee after just
four weeks. But with the help of a little bubble-blowing, biomedical engineers
hope to bring relief to urethras everywhere.

About half of the time, the interior of long-term urinary catheters become
plagued by biofilms—structures formed by colonies of bacteria that are
extremely difficult to kill. Once established, it is only a matter of time
before the biofilm becomes a welcoming host for other, more dangerous bacteria
or begins to choke urine drainage, causing leakage—or even trauma to the
patient’s body.

Duke University engineers have developed a new urinary catheter design that
can eliminate nearly all of the hard-to-kill biofilm from the catheter’s
walls. Instead of focusing on expensive antibacterial coatings, the
researchers use physical deformation to knock the infectious film from its
moorings.

“A biofilm is like a city that protects and harbors harmful bacteria,” said
Vrad Levering, a PhD student in biomedical engineering. “Our solution is like
an earthquake that demolishes the infrastructure, leaving the rubble to be
easily washed away by a flood of urine.”

The study appears online March 25 in _Advanced Healthcare Materials_.

One in five people admitted to the hospital requires a urinary catheter,
contributing to the more than 30 million used each year in the United States.
These catheters are the number-one cause of hospital-acquired infections in
the United States.

Outside of the hospital, catheters are also commonly required by paralysis
victims and the immobile elderly. And with an aging population, the use of
catheters is likely to increase in coming decades.

For years, researchers have focused on developing antimicrobial treatments to
stop the formation of biofilms, but as the statistics indicate, they have yet
to find an affordable, effective solution. Besides the costs and technical
challenges, many doctors fear antimicrobial solutions would promote the
evolution of antibiotic-resistant superbugs.

So Duke engineers decided to think outside of the cylinder.

“We ran experiments showing that if you stretch an elastic piece of rubber at
a proper rate, you can pop various types of sticky biofilms right off of its
surface,” said Xuanhe Zhao, professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science, whose team partnered with that of Gabriel Lopez, professor of
biomedical engineering.

“Those tests were initially aimed at cleaning submerged surfaces in marine
environments, but the principle has many possible applications,” continued
Lopez. “So we thought, why not catheters?”

Their first model features a single channel that can be inflated with liquid
or air running parallel to the main urinary tract, with nothing but a thin,
flexible barrier between the two. Pushing liquid through the small inflation
channel forces the thin wall into the urinary tract while leaving the outer
dimensions of the catheter intact.

A prototype molded from a 3D printed form worked beautifully, Levering said.
The sudden deformation unseated more than 90 percent of the biofilm, which was
washed away by a flow matching the slow movement of urine. Biofilm on the wall
opposite the inflation channel was mostly unharmed, but the collaborative team
has plans to produce a new prototype with inflation channels running along
both sides of the main channel.

Lopez believes the demonstration is a clear proof-of-principle that their
simple mechanical solution could revolutionize the catheter industry. Because
the design would have low implementation costs, closely adheres to the
dimensions of current catheters and would be easy for medical clinicians to
operate, the team hopes to bring it to market and is currently searching for
partners.

“There are more than 30 million of these used every year,” said Levering. “And
for a technology that has changed very little in 50 years, the problem is kind
of atrocious. We hope we have found a solution.”

Levering said the general concept has potential applications for a wide range
of industries currently plagued by biofilms, such as dairy processing,
petroleum transport, city drinking water and heat exchangers.

“We don’t want to get in over our heads, but there are lots of other places
where biofilms are severe problems,” said Levering. “It’s a multi-billion-
dollar-per-year problem for sea water filtration alone. There are definitely
other potential markets out there.”

The research was a collaboration between the Lopez and Zhao groups that,
besides Levering, includes Qiming Wang, a PhD student in mechanical
engineering and materials science, and Phanindhar Shivapooja, a PhD student in
biomedical engineering.

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation’s Research Triangle
Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (DMR-1121107), the Office of
Naval Research (N0014-13-1-0828) and National Institutes of Health Training
Grant (#5T32GM008555-18).

Watch the video above on YouTube.

###

“Soft Robotic Concepts in Catheter Design: an On-demand Fouling-release
Urinary Catheter,” Levering, V., Wang, Q., Shivapooja P., Zhao, X., Lopez,
G.P. Advanced Healthcare Materials, 2014. DOI: 10.1002/ ((ADHM.201400035))

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

