

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# CEE Students Train to Survive the Zombie Apocalypse

October 19, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Reimagined introductory course puts a new spin on environmental engineering

Freshman and sophomores at Duke University are getting a crash course in
surviving the zombie apocalypse and learning a lot about environmental
engineering along the way.

“Society has become disconnected from the sources that fill its basic needs
like food, water, air and energy,” explained David Schaad, professor of the
practice of civil and environmental engineering at Duke. “Environmental
engineers spend their careers worrying about these vital needs every day. And
when you think about it, surviving a zombie apocalypse touches on a lot of the
same basic concepts.”

Zombie Apocalypse 101 is better known in the Duke coursebook as CEE 160L(24L):
Introduction to Environmental Engineering and Science. In the first iteration
of its new theme, the class tackles four of the basic needs everybody has to
survive: air, water, food and energy.

The first challenge facing the students this year was building an Improvised
Breathing-Zone Particulate Barrier (IBPB) that can filter out any harmful
airborne particles, including any potential “zombie-causing particles” that
might be in the air. Each team’s mask was evaluated based on its design
rationale, designated filtration process and filtering effectiveness. To make
the challenge more interesting, the mask had to remain snug to the face and
keep a firm seal while the wearer is working in the field, cooking on a stove
or out on a zombie-slaying mission.

“For the aerobic challenge, we were going to have the students just run in
place, but then two graduate students we were working with, Karoline Johnson
and Heidi Vreeland, suggested it would be more fun if the students in the
class had to run up to a ‘zombie head’ and knock it off a platform,” said
Schaad.

“The World Health Organization’s newest air quality model suggests that 92
percent of the world’s population lives in places where the air quality does
not meet the organization’s standards,” said Mike Bergin, professor of civil
and environmental engineering at Duke, who helped create the challenge. “And
air pollution is the single largest environmental health risk, claiming one in
eight lives globally due to heart disease, stroke, respiratory illness and
cancer. So dealing with air filtration is something environmental engineers
work with all the time.”

This year’s students still face obstacles of treating contaminated water,
building a hydraulic elevator or water-pressure lift, and fabricating a solar
thermal water heater. But according to Schaad, the class is still evolving,
and will be renamed “Engineering the Planet” next semester while featuring
different challenges.

Besides building an air or water filter and a hydraulic elevator or water-
pressure lift, students interested in the class next semester will also have
to design and construct a structural support system and engineer a new
“tenting” system for equitably allocating slots in the infamous
Krzyzewskiville.

“When you think about it, tenting is really a systems optimization problem,”
said Schaad. “You have to worry about managing supply and demand, by weighting
or incentivizing different ‘routes’ to joining the line into Cameron. All of
these ‘design challenges’ replicate actual projects the students may encounter
in their professional careers, with the likely exception of encountering an
actual zombie.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

