

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Celestial Bodies Born Like Cracking Paint

March 1, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Volumes under internal tension crack hierarchically, revealing how gravity
created the universe’s wide variety of body sizes

A Duke theorist says there’s a very good reason why objects in the universe
come in a wide variety of sizes, from the largest stars to the smallest dust
motes—and it has a lot to do with how paint cracks when it dries.

In a paper published March 1 in the Journal of Applied Physics, Adrian Bejan,
the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Duke University,
explains how the need to release internal tension shaped the universe as we
see it.

Though unknowably large and spread out, the very early universe can be thought
of as a finite volume of suspended particles. And because every object in the
universe exerts a gravitational force on every other object in the universe,
this volume was in internal tension.

It was only a matter of time before particles began coming together to form
larger objects. But why did they come together to form objects in such a wide
variety of sizes, rather than in a uniform manner?

“We know from common experiences that things in volumetric tension crack, and
they crack instantly everywhere,” said Bejan. “The easiest example is paint
drying on a wall. As it dries, it shrinks, putting the entire system in
tension. Then boom, it suddenly cracks overnight, relieving the tension. And
the design responsible for that relief is hierarchical, meaning few large and
many small.”

According to Bejan, this pattern of relief follows the constructal law, which
he penned in 1996. The constructal law states that any flowing system allowed
to change freely over time will trend toward an easier flowing architecture.
For rivers, roots and vascular systems, this means a few large channels carry
massive flows to numerous smaller branches for evacuation. For a young
universe with particles pulling every which way, this means its internal
tension released in the fastest way possible.

In a series of thought experiments and simple physics equations, Bejan’s paper
shows that the fastest way for the tension to be released was through the
formation of bodies in a hierarchy. That is, he demonstrates that if all
bodies formed were of the same size, the tension would not be released as
affectively as when a few large bodies were formed along with many smaller
bodies.

Just like the cracks in the paint.

“All volumetric cracking is hierarchical. You never see uniform cracking or
shattering,” said Bejan. “In celestial mechanics, there is this very old idea
that bodies coalesce and grow due to gravity, which is of course correct.
Growth is one thing, but growing hierarchically rather than all in the same
size is another, which is called nature.”

###

“The physics origin of the hierarchy of bodies in space.” A. Bejan and R.W.
Wagstaff. Journal of Applied Physics, 2016. DOI: 10.1063/1.4941986

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

