

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Center for Alternative Sustainable and Intelligent Computing Kicks Off

February 20, 2019

In a new Duke-led consortium, industry, university, and government agencies
converge to accelerate cognitive computing research

The Center for Alternative Sustainable and Intelligent Computing (ASIC), a
National Science Foundation Industry–University Cooperative Research Center
headquartered at Duke University, kicked off last week with its first meeting,
at the university’s Chesterfield building in downtown Durham. The launch
brought together 23 delegates from 14 organizations that are
invested—literally as well as figuratively—in the cognitive computing
technologies being developed by ASIC’s three partnering research universities:
Duke, Syracuse University and the University of Notre Dame.

The center is directed by Duke ECE associate professors Yiran Chen, Hai
“Helen” Li and Benjamin Lee.

“Machine learning and neural networks are truly impacting the world in broad
ways,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke
University, in his opening remarks to the center’s members. “There is enormous
potential for this technology, and you are here to realize it.”

Over the course of the two-day meeting, ASIC’s directors and their students
proposed projects within the center’s three main research thrusts: efficient
neural network design, computing platforms and architecture, and efficient
applications of neural networks. Attending members then voted for the projects
that would bring the most benefit to their organizations; the winning
projects, which focused on AI computing technologies, applications for edge
computing, autonomous cars, network compression, and spiking neural networks,
got a green light to proceed, with support from ASIC.

“We’re very proud that we have this center here,” said Duke Electrical and
Computer Engineering department chair Krishnendu Chakrabarty. “We have built
this unique research ecosystem that involves the NSF, the Air Force, the Army,
private companies, and major research universities. This center will be a
magnet that draws even more star faculty to Duke and ECE.”

More news from ECE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

