

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

#  Chakrabarty Reappointed Chair of Duke ECE

May 28, 2020

Krishnendu Chakrabarty has been reappointed as chair of Duke’s Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering and will hold a new three-year term
extending to June 2023

Krishnendu Chakrabarty has been reappointed as chair of Duke’s Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) and will hold a new three-year term
extending to June 2023.

Chakrabarty has belonged to the Duke faculty since 1998 and has served as
chair of Duke ECE since September 2017, leading the department through a
period of sustained growth and development. Since Chakrabarty took the helm as
chair, ECE has expanded its tenure-track faculty by 27 percent, with 47
tenure-track faculty members anticipated by June 2022—including many new
computer engineering faculty hired jointly with the Department of Computer
Science. Research expenditures, meanwhile, have increased by nearly 36 percent
to $34 million in FY2019.

“Krish Chakrabarty is an accomplished scholar and inventor whose brilliance is
perhaps equaled by his humility,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the
Pratt School of Engineering, in announcing the appointment. Chakrabarty, the
John Cocke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and
Professor of Computer Science at Duke University, is a Fellow of the IEEE,
ACM, and AAAS, a recipient of the National Science Foundation Early Faculty
(CAREER) Award, the Office of Naval Research Young Investigator Award, the
Humboldt Research Award, Technical Achievement Awards from the IEEE Computer
and Circuits and Systems societies, the Technical Excellence Award from the
Semiconductor Research Corporation, and the winner of “best paper” awards too
numerous to list here. He also holds 13 US patents.

“As chair, Krish has chosen to work behind the scenes to spotlight the
accomplishments of his colleagues and their students, and campaigned
tirelessly to hire amazing faculty, recruit the best and brightest students,
and create an environment of collaboration and creativity where original
research can flourish,” said Bellamkonda. “Duke ECE will surely continue its
upward trajectory under Krish’s thoughtful leadership and dedication to the
health and growth of the whole department.”

Over his next term of leadership, Chakrabarty will prioritize building upon
the department’s reputation as a research force to be reckoned with,
particularly in its signature strengths of quantum computing, metamaterials
and machine learning. Special attention will also be paid to initiatives to
enhance computing at Duke in partnership with other schools across the
university, as well as to further diversify both the graduate student body and
the faculty in order to bring the best minds to Duke and ECE.

“As a community, Duke ECE’s talents span the most incredible spectrum,” said
Chakrabarty. “Our department is home to luminaries and pioneers, whose
research is revolutionizing the way we gather, process and secure information.
Our educational programs are among the most innovative, forward-looking and
agile. The ECE faculty and staff have created an amazingly collegial
environment and our outstanding students are a constant source of
revitalization and inspiration. I thank the dean and our faculty for their
support and partnership. It is both a pleasure and a privilege for me to have
the continuing opportunity to foster our forward momentum.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

