

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chakrabarty Receives 2015 IEEE Computer Society Technical Achievement Award

April 2, 2015

Chakrabarty cited for pioneering and inspirational research on the design
automation and testing of complex chips with the application to microfluidic
biochips

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of
Engineering in Duke University’s Electrical and Computer Engineering
Department, has received the 2015 Technical Achievement Award from the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Computer Society. The
award is given for “outstanding and innovative contributions to the fields of
computer and information science and engineering or computer technology”
within the past 15 years.

Chakrabarty was cited for “pioneering and inspirational research on the design
automation and testing of complex chips with the application to microfluidic
biochips.” Beginning in the early 2000s, Chakrabarty was one of the first
pioneers in creating design automation and optimization techniques for “lab-
on-a-chip” devices, where a wide array of biomedical and chemical tests are
miniaturized and completed on a microchip only a few centimeters wide.

Early on, his particular contributions included optimizing biochip designs,
creating efficient algorithms to make the miniaturized integrated systems work
and creating diagnostic processes to quickly test new designs. More recently,
Chakrabarty’s work has helped develop cyberphysical microfluidic biochips, in
which tiny droplets are manipulated and controlled to conduct on-chip
reactions and error recovery is automated. These devices are revolutionizing a
wide range of applications, such as high-throughput sequencing, parallel
immunoassays, clinical diagnostics, DNA sequencing and protein
crystallization.

By connecting computing techniques to biochemistry laboratory protocols,
Chakrabarty’s research is making this technology widely accessible by allowing
these chips to be controlled and reconfigured by software. Such solutions can
erase the need for tedious chip redesign by hand for each target application.

Chakrabarty joins three other scientists in receiving this year’s award, which
will be presented at a ceremony on June 3, 2015, in Atlanta, Georgia. For more
information, visit the award’s website at
computer.org/volunteering/awards/technical-achievement.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

