

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chanwook Oh: Distributed Control of Wireless Networks

January 19, 2017

Pratt Undergraduate Reserach Fellow Profile

  * Major: Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
  * Advisor: Professor Michael Zavlanos
  * Pratt Fellows Project: Distributed Control of Wireless Networks

****

**How did you become interested in the Pratt Fellows Program?**

When I started at Duke I was originally in BME, and I was actually thinking
about medical school and going back to South Korea to become a doctor. When I
came back after taking two years off for military service I dived back into
the engineering courses and I ended up taking a lot of MEMS and ECE classes,
and I ended up pursuing research within that realm because I really liked
conducting my own research to solve a new problem and find a unique solution.
I found the Pratt Fellows program and I was able to choose from a wide variety
of projects to help with. I think it’s a good opportunity because professors
need undergraduates to work in their labs, and for undergraduates it’s much
easier to find the right project for their interest because there are so many
projects to choose from.

**What is your project?**

I’m building a platform for testing optimization algorithms. Optimization
algorithms are designed by Michael Zavlanos, the lab director, and grad
students, and they did it all on computer-aided numerical and graphical tools,
but I’m trying to build a real platform that they can test their algorithms
on.

**What has it been like to work with faculty for the Pratt Fellow Program?**

My advisor, Michael Zavlanos, has been really helpful for me. He’s always been
available if I have questions and he always helped me whenever I found myself
stuck, both inside and outside of the lab. I applied to grad school to get my
PhD in electrical engineering, and he helped me during that process as well,
so he really went above and beyond. The faculty were very accessible, and it
was a big benefit for me going forward.

**How do you think being a Pratt Fellow has enriched your experience at
Duke?**

As an undergraduate, sometimes you worry that it’s hard to get to know the
fellow students and professors well, but by doing Pratt Fellows I had an
opportunity to get to know the other students and collaborate closely with the
faculty. That was a great opportunity that I don’t know if I would have had
otherwise. I grateful to Dr. Zavlanos and Dean Gaston for organizing and
coordinating the program and ensuring that I got the most out of my time at
Duke.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

