

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Christ Richmond: Developing Tomorrow’s Wireless Protocols

November 29, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Christ Richmond is working to get more value out of limited
frequency spectrum and using AI to improve and secure wireless connectivity

Christ Richmond will join the faculty of the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University beginning January 1, 2022. With
decades of experience designing and testing new technologies and algorithms to
improve wireless applications such as radar and communications, Richmond will
join longtime colleagues at Duke in applying emerging techniques such as
machine learning to the field.

After earning undergraduate degrees in electrical engineering at the
University of Maryland at College Park and in mathematics at Bowie State
University, Richmond completed master’s and doctorate programs at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. For more than two decades, Richmond
worked as a senior staff member with the Advanced Sensor Techniques Group at
the MIT Lincoln Laboratory before joining the faculty at Arizona State
University in 2017.

Through all of his work, Richmond has pushed the boundaries of what modern
technology can do with electromagnetic and acoustic waves. While most people
are more familiar with the spectrum of electromagnetic waves that we can
see—visible light—other frequencies are used for a wide variety of purposes
such as radio, radar, WiFi, Bluetooth, satellite communications, cellular
telephones, 5G devices and more. If it sounds like a crowded space to be
playing in, that’s because it is.

“Think of the electromagnetic spectrum as a parking lot and each of these
frequency bands­­ as parking spaces,” said Richmond. “Just like real estate,
certain spots are more attractive than others, and everybody wants the good
ones.”

The agency that decides who gets what spaces is the Federal Communications
Commission, or FCC. According to Richmond, the FCC has historically reserved
the best spots for the military and for civilian organizations with important
aims, like atmospheric observation. But a few decades ago, a large swath of
these valuable frequencies were sold to private corporations on the promise
that researchers would be able to figure out how to do more with less
electromagnetic real estate.

> “We need to figure out how to get all of these signals to dance together in
> a coordinated way without stepping on each other. This requires the radar
> talking with the satellite signals through computers and algorithms. But if
> we can get them to work together as an extension of each other, we might
> just be able to make both work better as a team than as individuals.”
>
> christ richmond

Fast forward to today, and Richmond is one of the researchers still building
those bridges. Along with colleagues Robert Calderbank, the Charles S. Sydnor
Distinguished Professor of Computer Science and director of the Information
Initiative at Duke, and Vahid Tarokh, the Rhodes Family Professor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering, Richmond is working on a proposal that
would let users of spectrum share the same frequency band, or perhaps even
coexist simultaneously within the same band (or in the language of cars and
parking spaces, these cars will share parking spaces, or perhaps even park on
top of one another).

“We need to figure out how to get all of these signals to dance together in a
coordinated way without stepping on each other,” said Richmond. “This requires
the radar talking with the satellite signals through computers and algorithms.
But if we can get them to work together as an extension of each other, we
might just be able to make both work better as a team than as individuals.”

Richmond’s other primary line of research, which is also a collaboration with
Calderbank and Tarokh, involves applying evolving machine learning techniques
to wireless communications. The trio already has a running start. In October
2020, the team landed a five-year, $5 million grant from the Air Force to
develop AI-informed communication and networking protocols fast and reliable
enough to handle Air Force requirements.

To help explain their efforts in this arena, Richmond says to consider that
all of today’s wireless communication algorithms are based on a model of how
the waves should behave. As long as the signal is strong and the assumed model
holds, then the technology can decipher the incoming data. But when the
incoming waves no longer look as expected due to interference or degradation
over time and space, the model breaks down and the signal is lost.

“We’re moving away from developing algorithms that are based on a model and
instead are basing them on AI,” said Richmond. “These types of approaches rely
on data rather than a model. So as long as you train it with enough data from
a wide range of less-than-ideal scenarios, it can adapt itself to changes in
the environment. The potential is really amazing.”

With strong collaborators at Duke and a multimillion-dollar center already in
the works, it might only have been a question of when Richmond joined the
faculty rather than if. In any case, Richmond says he is excited about the
opportunities the move will create for him in a wide variety of topics.

“I’ve stayed in touch with lots of people now at Duke for a long time. They
kept telling me that I ought to think about coming here too, and once I looked
at what’s going on, it was very attractive in a lot of ways,” said Richmond.
“I’ve been told the students are very good, so I’m excited about that. There’s
also a lot of fantastic young faculty and I’m interested in a bunch of
projects going on at the medical school too. I think the longer I’m here, the
more I will find opportunities for new collaborations.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

