

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Christensen Family Center Is Home to a New View on Innovation

September 28, 2021 | Mark Schreiner

The new Duke Engineering center seeks to not only develop student innovators,
but discover how to make innovation easier, faster, cheaper

When people ask Executive-in-Residence Steven McClelland about the vision for
the Christensen Family Center for Innovation at Duke, he quotes Proust: ” _The
real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new landscapes, but in having
new eyes_.”

### A Commitment to Duke

The center's name honors a major gift from **the family of Clayton
Christensen** , the management thinker who coined ‘disruptive innovation’

Learn more about it »

For years, McClelland and his Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn)
colleagues have mentored individual students and teams in their search for
real-world needs and designing novel and effective solutions for them.

In the Christensen Family Center, McClelland and other leaders will take that
one step further by looking at the whole process of innovation with fresh
eyes. The goal: to make the difficult, circuitous, and often lonely process
faster, cheaper, and easier to learn.

To start, the center will:

  * **Serve as a home and community** for people who want to practice turning
    their ideas into impact
  * **Enable innovation** through the application of digital technology
  * **Support teaching** of innovation by identifying best practices

"As we launch, we're seeking two things," said co-leader Donna Crenshaw, who
is also executive director of the MEDx initiative between Duke's School of
Medicine and the Pratt School of Engineering. "To create a home for a
community of people, from different disciplines and backgrounds, who use or
want to learn design principles to develop implementable solutions to
authentic problems, and stakeholders, from the university, the community, and
industry, who bring the real-world problems that we can work on.”

A home and community for innovators

The Christensen Family Center for Innovation is on the first floor of the new
Wilkinson Building. It includes a maker space "garage lab," and meeting and
office space.

It is home to Duke Design Health and will be home to future cross-disciplinary
innovation programs in climate and defense. An overriding principle for every
initiative that the center undertakes is that processes and solutions
incorporate diverse viewpoints and experiences. The center has also become a
partner with the Duke Open Design Studio, which incorporates into its human-
centered design process elements such as empathy, an individual's
responsibility to others, inclusivity, and transparency to the design process.

Crenshaw and McClelland said the center's community includes all of Duke,
Durham and North Carolina.

> "The Christensen Family Center for Innovation is open for business. We're
> building a community of people who are teaching and practicing the skills
> needed to solve complex problems."
>
> **Donna Crenshaw** | Executive Director, Duke MEDx

"We're open for business," Crenshaw said. "Anyone interested in innovation is
invited to visit us in the Wilkinson Building and to reach out to us. We want
to build a community of people who are teaching and practicing the skills
needed to solve complex problems."

To support that community, the Christensen Center will offer an initial set of
digital solutions for innovators. These are intended to help speed the
innovation process. But they will also gather details on how the process
worked or didn’t work in individual projects.

Enabling innovation through digital technology

"Information technology has been proven to create efficiencies in every
industry where it has been deployed—it makes cycles of improvement faster and
the data it collects provide insights and new perspectives," McClelland said.

Yet, he said, the common practice of the innovator can be to work in
isolation, not knowing if another person in the community is working on a
similar problem. Or, knowledge gained during the life of a project, over a
semester or a few years, maybe lost as team members move on to other things.

"Designers graduate," Crenshaw said. "People move on. Our vision is to use
digital technology to make sure that nothing learned is lost, and that what is
learned can be shared."

The center is working on a digital tool that can store and analyze all the
information gathered as part of an innovation effort. For example, suppose a
team observed work at Duke University Medical Center looking at a problem with
clinical scheduling. In that case, they can use the tool to upload the notes
they've taken, transcripts of interviews with clinicians and patients, even
upload videos documenting the problem they’re trying to solve. The tool
digitizes all the information and then analyzes it, looking for patterns and
valuable insights. The tool’s knowledge base and ability to synthesize
insights grow as more innovators contribute.

Another tool, which has been used to help scale the Student Founder Program,
helps manage and track the process of participants interested in startups.
Simple digital tools help to facilitate communication, coaching, and the
progress of participants’ ideas. Using a system and analyzing the data helps
to improve the program and more efficiently direct resources where they can be
most helpful.

With a community in place and data flowing in, McClelland and Crenshaw foresee
new insights emerging on improving the process of innovation.

Support the teaching of innovation by identifying best practices

"It's always better when you know how to get good results. We know in other
fields, medicine for example, that evidence-based frameworks and best
practices work," Crenshaw said. "But, unlike medicine, innovation isn't a very
observable practice. Even the inventor might not realize precisely when or why
they had their ‘lightbulb moment.’ "

McClelland and Crenshaw plan to share what they learn about those potential
best practices as widely as they can. And they expect and want feedback and
debate on the insights the center develops.

"We're motivated as engineers, as people who want to solve problems, and we're
also motivated by the vision presented to us by our namesake, the Christensen
Family," McClelland said. "They gave us a sense of urgency — get out there,
help people, make an impact, be a catalyst for action. Engineers aren't just
mechanics; they're leaders who drive solutions to improve society. We bring
new eyes."

More about Entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering »

## Related News

September 28, 2021

### Christensen Family Gift Endows Center for Student Design Education at Duke

April 01, 2021

### The Wilkinson Building: Reimagining Engineering Education

March 11, 2019

### Founder's Workshop Creates Entrepreneurial Confidence

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

