

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Christine Schindler: Improving Women's Health Worldwide

May 13, 2015 | By Christine Schindler

##### **NAE Grand Challenge Scholar Profile**

  * **Major:** Biomedical Engineering
  * **Sub-Plan:** Global Health
  * **Grand Challenge:** Engineering Better Medicines
  * **GC Advisor:**Professor Nimmi Ramanujam
  * **Project Title:** Illuminating the Grand Challenge of Engineering Better
    Medicines: An Interdisciplinary, Global, Service, Entrepreneurship, and
    Research Approach

As a Grand Challenge Scholar, my aim is to address the health disparities that
exist for women on a global level by combining my passions and independent
studies in global health and biomedical engineering as well as the research I
have accomplished regarding women’s health. As a Duke University Pratt School
of Engineering Fellow, I completed research on a breast cancer detection
device using imaging and light technology. This device can be used on breast
tissue to determine if there is cancerous tumor tissue present by reflecting
light off of the flesh.

> Being a Grand Challenge Scholar has opened my eyes to the way that engineers
> can truly make a tangible impact in the world every single day.

My research occurred in the lab setting, working on the development of this
device from a hardware and software perspective, as well as in the Duke
University Hospital Ambulatory Surgery Unit, where I was collecting clinical
data for the device. I was able to research and develop this device as a
method for improving women’s health both locally and globally. And as a Global
Women’s Health Technology Center Fellow, I researched and created individual
project modules and instructions relating to health that could be distributed
to women globally.

Throughout my time at Duke, it has been an incredible experience to uphold the
mission of a Grand Challenge Scholar through each of the pillars of the Grand
Challenge Scholars program. I have been able to reach each of these pillars
through interdisciplinary education as a biomedical engineering major with a
minor in global health, my service involvement through the Boeing Fellows
program working in Durham public schools, my entrepreneurship experiences of
starting a non­profit organization to encourage females to enter STEM fields,
and my global experiences working as a biomedical engineering technician in
Tanzania and attending global conferences hosted by the Clinton Global
Initiative.

The culmination of these experiences, in conjunction with my research
opportunities, has provided me a broad and well-rounded college experience,
which will provide me with the training, education, awareness, and ability to
confidently identify and pursue solutions to the National Academy of
Engineering “Grand Challenges of Engineering” throughout my life, and I look
forward to continuing to use these skills in all of my future endeavors as an
engineer. Being a Grand Challenge Scholar has opened my eyes to the way that
engineers can truly make a tangible impact in the world every single day.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

