

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Collaborating Across Continents

November 1, 2017

Duke BME professors challenge students to design Solutions with global
communities in mind

In hospitals with plenty of resources, infants in the neonatal ward are
connected to separate oxygen tanks where the gas flow is carefully regulated,
ensuring that they receive proper oxygen therapy for any breathing problems
they may have.

### From Duke BME Magazine

Explore the Fall 2017 issue

But this was not true at the ward in Mulago Hospital in Kampala, Uganda, where
newborns with breathing problems are given oxygen by a haphazard daisy chain
of tubes all connected to a central oxygen canister. The only way to control
the flow of oxygen is by opening and closing the valve on the top of the tank,
that may or may not include a flowmeter. In this arrangement, the newborn
closest to the regulator got too much oxygen, while the child farthest away
barely gets any.

In a classroom in the back corner of Hudson Hall at Duke University, four
biomedical engineering students flashed through an in-class presentation
showing their plans to create a simple system to produce a controlled “split”
of oxygen from a single line to multiple infants in the neonatal ward.

A student in the class raised her hand, “How do you ensure that this will
allow newborns to get the needed amount of oxygen?”

The group flipped back to images of their project, showing a panel with
separate plastic regulators to control each patient’s oxygen supply, each of
which was connected in parallel to the central tank. This allowed the same gas
pressure to be applied to each regulator of the panel from a single oxygen
tank. The design was also easy to create and replicate, they said, and it
wouldn’t require the hospital to order expensive parts when things broke down.

“This doesn’t solve all the problems that they encounter in the ward,” said
Meredith Lee, a BME master’s student and one of the presenters, “but it’s
starting to address a big one.”

## Engineering a New Perspective **  
**

Creating workable solutions to real-world problems is a key part of the novel
Duke-Makerere University BME Partnership, a collaborative program between Duke
University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering and the new BME program at
Makerere University in Kampala, Uganda. Spearheaded by William (Monty)
Reichert, the Theo Pilkington Professor of Biomedical Engineering, the
partnership was created to encourage biomedical engineering students to
approach engineering problems with cost-efficient and practical solutions that
can be created in resource-limited settings­­.

Reichert developed the program after spending the 2014-2015 academic year as a
Fulbright Scholar at the university in Uganda. During his time at Makerere, he
worked as a professor in their newly created BME program, teaching engineering
classes in biomaterials, tissue engineering, drug delivery, BME design and
even environmental engineering while also spearheading a major revision of
their BME curriculum.

At Makerere, Reichert noticed that while the engineering students in Uganda
were just as driven to solve problems as their Duke counterparts, they were
limited by the technology they had at their disposal. They could develop a
theoretical knowledge of biomedical engineering, but they were hard pressed to
gain practical experience without sophisticated tools or labs. Other issues
persisted as well.

“One of the main challenges we face—and continue to have—is a shortage of
staff to support the training of students,” says Dr. Robert Ssekitoleko,
acting head of Makerere’s BME Program. “That is being handled in part by the
volunteering team that has been retained as teaching assistants, but these
trainers cannot be officially recognized because the minimum qualification for
recruitment at Makerere is a master’s degree.”

In 2014, Reichert returned to Duke for the Christmas break and met with
Ashutosh Chilkoti, the chair of BME at the university. Chilkoti encouraged
Reichert to think of creative ways to build upon his stay in Uganda.

“Given the connections Monty had made at Makerere University, I though this
provided a unique opportunity for Monty and our department to do something
meaningful in Uganda,” Chilkoti says.

In response, Reichert devised a proposal to create a unique partnership
between the schools. This collaboration would allow Duke students to work with
their Makerere counterparts to create much-needed, practical medical tools,
and Chilkoti enthusiastically offered his support.

“Western engineering doesn’t always apply to problems that people face in
places where resources are limited,” says Reichert. “Everyone’s experience in
health care is drastically different depending on where you are, and as
engineers at a research intensive BME department we have the ability to
address that.”

Reichert worked with Ssekitoleko to create the Duke-Makerere partnership in
2014. Together, they aimed to create a program that would give Makerere
students practical experience, and provide Duke students with a unique
perspective on how they can efficiently design tools and technologies that are
made with resource-limited settings in mind. They also arranged for the first
of six Ugandan engineers, Kenneth Rubango and Henry Kiwumolo, to come to Duke
on full scholarships to work towards master’s degrees at Duke’s BME
department, preparing them to return to Makerere as instructors in BME.

“There is no shortage of problems in resource-limited settings that need
engineering solutions, and they don’t always need particularly sophisticated
ones,” says Reichert. “If you’re looking to see how your work is relevant on a
human scale, then there is great value in understanding and devising solutions
to these challenges.”

During the school year, students in Reichert’s class at Duke pair up with
groups of students at Makerere to design tools that can be used to solve
common problems at hospitals in Uganda. To collaborate, the students
communicate via messaging apps and email, where they continually refine and
discuss their designs and work to ensure that their tools are cost-effective
and practical.

But the students aren’t limited to online communication; each semester the
teams from Duke travel to Kampala to meet with their Makerere peers face-to-
face and conduct research in the Mulago hospital to improve their designs.

“I learned how to work on a global team,” says Jawad Hoballah, a master’s
students in BME who participated in the Spring 2017 Duke-Makerere program. “We
worked through different time zones, gained insights into our Ugandan
teammate’s interests and culture, and together we built a device that can have
a meaningful impact on local communities in Uganda.”

With his family spread across the globe, Hoballah has had numerous
opportunities to see the differences in access to healthcare across the world.
For this reason, he says that Reichert’s course was a key reason for why he
decided to attend Duke.

“If you’re going to succeed as an engineer, you need to take a different
approach to solving problems around the world,” says Hoballah. “An issue we
face in America is not necessarily an issue they face in Uganda, and we can’t
just apply a bandage to the situation and say it’s fixed.”

During his time in the program, Hoballah’s team helped create a project that
addressed neonatal jaundice, a common condition that occurs when the baby’s
liver can’t adequately remove a substance called bilirubin from the body. The
standard treatment includes light therapy, in which the baby is placed under
specialized blue lighting that can help break down the bilirubin molecules.
But many hospitals in Uganda don’t have access to this treatment, or even
incubators to house the children during the therapy.

After visiting Mulago hospital, the students came up with a new design for a
“jaundice crib.”

This design used a box that was threaded with blue LED lights. To use the
device, the baby is laid down on the bottom portion, and they are treated with
light from both above and below. Because the LED lighting is also removable,
when a strand breaks biomedical engineers can easily fix and replace it at low
cost.

A third project, developed with Duke-Makerere Scholar Rubango, devised a
solution to another problem that plagues hospitals and clinics in Uganda’s hot
climate: vaccine transport. Their design features a carrier that is similar to
a thermal lunch box, outfitted with a temperature sensor and stacked trays for
easy vaccine access.

While the entire design is novel, the engineers took extra care when designing
the trays, as they wanted to make it easier for healthcare workers to identify
the vaccines without taking them out of the carrier and exposing them to warm
air, thereby saving their contents.

“This isn’t an issue that we’d have in the United States, but in Uganda
vaccines are often transported by bicycle,” says Rubango, who was one of the
first students to graduate from the BME program in Makerere. “So spoilage is a
big problem, and a simple change like this can make a big difference.”

## Donations Hurt

For Robert Malkin, understanding the context surrounding a problem is key.
Malkin, a professor of the practice in BME, is the founder of Engineering
World Health (EWH), a nonprofit organization that engages students from Duke
and around the United States to improve health care in low-income countries
across the globe. Originally, the organization’s goal was to take
decommissioned hospital equipment and fix it so it could be used in hospitals
where resources where scarce.

Malkin says this goal changed after a trip to Nicaragua, where he found that
hardly any of the equipment that had been donated was being used. Instead, the
hospital had to rent out a building to store the sea of medical equipment that
had been donated from EWH and other organizations. According to Malkin, the
equipment was either already broken when it was donated, or it had broken at
the hospital where the staff didn’t have the resources to fix it.

“In our efforts to help, we sent this hospital backwards,” he says.

According to the Director General of the World Health Organization, only 10 to
20 percent of donated, critical equipment is ever used, and most of it
requires materials and parts that constantly need to be updated. On top of
that, most of the medical devices that have been donated were designed for the
developed world, not places where power shortages and other limitations are
common.

Essentially, he says, “If you have donated medical equipment to a developing
world hospital, you have probably hurt the people you were intending to help.
It’s like donating your car to a community without gas.”

Malkin shifted his goal when he came to this realization. Now, students who
participate in the program are challenged to create low-cost, sustainable
solutions to circumvent the issues that arise in hospitals where resources are
scarce.

One of Malkin’s favorite success stories involves engineers who recognized
that hospital workers had a hard time accessing replacement lightbulbs for the
specialized surgical lights in operating rooms. Instead, workers were using
regular lightbulbs, which would quickly overheat and even catch fire.

Instead, students devised a method to rewire the surgical lights so the bulbs
from the backup lights in a truck could be used as an alternative. Their
approach not only increased the longevity of the surgical lights, but it made
replacement bulbs immediately accessible and affordable.

## Devising Lasting Solutions **  
**

Malkin uses his design course—Design for the Developing World—to challenge
students to think outside the box for their designs, while still being
realistic about cost and utility. Although the course is independent of the
activities of EWH, the projects that students work on are based on previous
research from students who visited hospitals through the EWH program.

Students in this course will typically create five to 10 new products a year,
which are then used in hospitals in resource-limited settings. One of the more
enduring projects created through Design for the Developing World is the Pratt
Pouch, a ketchup-packet-like item that contains antiretroviral medications to
prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV during childbirth.

“The problems that you solve through EWH and through Design for the Developing
World extend beyond technical limitations,” says Meggie Lund, a recent BME
graduate who took Malkin’s design course after conducting work with EWH in the
summer of 2015. “Working as a technician in a Nicaraguan hospital offered a
firsthand glimpse into equipment needs and common failure points of existing
technology, which we translated into more effective, sustainable solutions in
Dr. Malkin’s design class.”

In Design for the Developing World, Lund was on a team that developed parts of
a device to diagnose pneumonia. In the United States, doctors diagnose
pneumonia via an X-ray, but X-ray machines aren’t always available in
hospitals around the globe. Instead, Lund and her team worked on an
alternative — a specialized belt that loops around a person’s chest and
utilizes impedance plethysmography to diagnose pneumonia, even going so far as
to distinguish between bacterial and viral strains.

Given the impedance disparity between fluid and air in the lungs, a series of
resistance measurements across the chest could be plugged into an algorithm to
“reconstruct” an image of the lungs and make a diagnosis. The project has
continued with different teams across multiple semesters, Lund and her team
are optimistic about the tool becoming a viable alternative for doctors.

“We try to make sure that we’re designing equipment so that the spare parts
are locally available,” says Malkin. “But we can also benefit the local
economy if we can develop these products to be locally manufactured.”

Engineering World Health has grown to be an established presence at Duke since
Malkin created the program in 2001, and the lessons it imparts to its students
are similar to those gained from the new Duke-Makerere partnership.

And these programs continue to grow.

Since its inception, EWH has expanded to include more than 40 chapters at
universities across the US, and it supports training programs in various
countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America. As the Duke-Makerere BME
Partnership enters the second year of the five-year agreement, Reichert is
looking at ways to continue to expand the reach of the program. One idea he’s
mulling over involves working with students to commercialize their products
once the course is over so their work can be also be used outside Uganda.

As global-health education expands in Duke BME, Reichert and Malkin are
hopeful that the students who participate are broadening not only their
technical, cultural, problem-solving and entrepreneurial skills, but also
their understanding about how they can use engineering to help others around
the globe.

“If you really want to help the developing world, you need to be in the
developing world,” says Malkin. “These programs give students an opportunity
to do just that.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

