

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Comparing the Swab to the Sewer

March 3, 2021

Duke pilot testing effectiveness of campus wastewater sampling to detect SARS-
CoV-2, and comparing it to nasal swabs

DURHAM, N.C.—Using established methods for screening human sewage for the
presence of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, Duke University is
piloting a study to compare what can be learned from sewage with what can be
learned from a rigorous nasal swab testing program.

The university has been testing wastewater from three residence halls for the
virus and comparing that data to what is being learned from swab testing
across campus.

“Duke had the resources to conduct individual sampling, which is the gold
standard,” said Sonia Grego, an electrical and computer engineer with the Duke
Center for Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Infectious Disease, or WaSH-AID,
which is conducting the sewage testing.

But the testing system Duke has established, including dozens of temporary lab
workers to handle thousands of samples daily, has been expensive. “It’s
certainly more cost-effective to pool-test through wastewater,” said Grego.

Because of the way humans can shed the virus in their stool, wastewater
sampling has the potential to identify an outbreak of infections even before
people are exhibiting symptoms. But it would never replace individual testing,
Grego is quick to add.

Wastewater sampling for public health isn’t new; the United Nations monitors
wastewater in the last few geographical pockets where the polio virus lingers,
and the technique is also used in areas of the world prone to outbreaks of
typhoid and cholera. In the U.S., the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention recently launched a national wastewater surveillance system to
better understand how COVID-19 spreads within communities. And universities
across the U.S. have been using wastewater sampling since the current pandemic
arose, in the absence of individual nasal swab surveillance like Duke’s.

In cooperation with Duke Facilities Management, autosamplers collect small
amounts of wastewater coming from three residence halls throughout the day and
mix it all together, ensuring the daily sample better represents everyone
living in the building.

From the large sample, the Center for WaSH-AID’s lab cooks it down to a
smaller concentrate, then delivers it to the lab of civil and environmental
engineer Claudia Gunsch. Gunsch, an expert in identifying microbes and
microbial assemblies, extracts RNA from the concentrate. The RNA is then
screened for the unique genetic signatures of SARS-CoV-2 and quantified if
present.

Those results are then sent to biology professor Steven Haase, who has led the
Duke data modeling team since the swab-based surveillance program began last
summer.

Every day, Haase’s team checks the testing data for positive signals, and
adapts the distribution of tests to surround the positive cases, checking for
further transmission. This semester, data from the wastewater sampling will be
used to identify potential hot spots, in addition to the pooled nasal swab
tests.

“Here’s why it’s so interesting that this pilot program is happening at Duke,”
said Haase. “We have been able to get really good data on where our positives
are showing up.”

Haase said this trove of new data will make it possible to benchmark the
wastewater sampling method against the nasal swab method. Until now, no one
has had the necessary depth of data to compare the two.

“We have a shot at learning something really important here,” said Haase.

Information-sharing among universities has peaked under these unprecedented
circumstances, even amongst classic rivals; several researchers at the
Gillings School of Global Public Health and Department of Marine Sciences at
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill—most notably Rachel Noble,
Denene Blackwood and Tom Clerkin—have experience in SARS wastewater
surveillance and provided the Duke team with valuable tips and protocols for
the process.

Duke, in turn, recently published the particulars of its nasal swab pooling
procedures for other administrations to emulate if they choose.

Duke’s Office of Housing and Residence Life, in a January 21 email notifying
students of the pilot program, noted that the sampling stations may be moved
to serve different buildings over the course of the semester in response to
the wastewater surveillance team’s findings.

“Determining the sensitivity of wastewater testing is the next big-ticket
piece of knowledge that we can share,” noted Grego. “Early identification and
isolation will continue to be of critical importance in keeping our bubbles
safe until the threat fully recedes.”

More News from Duke Engineering

## Related News

October 07, 2020

### Calculating the Risk of COVID-19 Exposure

April 27, 2020

### Duke Engineers Adapt Rapid Testing Platform to See If It Can Catch
COVID-19

April 07, 2020

### ‘CovIdentify’ Pits Smartphones and Wearable Tech Against the Coronavirus

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

