

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Connecting the Symptoms of Pancreatic Cancer with Big Data

September 12, 2016

Duke’s Data+ program explores the connection between type 2 diabetes and
pancreatic cancer in the Duke electronic medical record

_Originally published by the Duke Social Science Research Institute_

_By Shelbi Fanning, Multimedia Specialist, Social Science Research Institute_

A staggering 94 percent of pancreatic cancer patients will die within five
years of diagnosis, and 74 percent of patients die just within the first year.
Multiple factors contribute to the low survival rate. It’s not only incredibly
aggressive, but also difficult to detect early and, once detected, poorly
responsive to treatment. It’s a perfect storm of factors that make it one of
the more deadly forms of cancer.

Some recent studies have shed light on the disease, showing a connection
between diabetes and pancreatic cancer. Though what exactly that connection
may be is yet to be defined, evidence indicates that type 2 diabetes is a risk
factor and also may result from pancreatic cancer. With approximately 80
percent of pancreatic cancer patients having glucose intolerance or diabetes,
the connection is well worth further investigation.

For Lisa Satterwhite (BME), the electronic medical record (EMR) could be the
key to defining this relationship. Her Data+ team comprising Zidi Xiu, Albert
Antar and Shaobo Han spent 10 weeks in the summer processing and modeling data
and making connections between symptoms in the medical record and eventual
diagnoses.

“What we’re trying to do is find pancreatic cancer before they diagnose it,
which is typically stage IV, and try to see if there are symptoms that are
present that haven’t been associated with pancreatic cancer prior to the
cancer spreading,” Satterwhite said. If it’s found early enough, treatment has
a better chance of working, so making connections to the earliest symptoms
could give patients a fighting chance.

Discussing each team member’s strengths and how they contributed to the
overall project, it’s clear that Satterwhite couldn’t be more enthusiastic
about their work together and her team’s preliminary predictive model.

Shaobo Han, Ph.D., project mentor (ECE), suggested applying several machine
learning approaches to this Duke EMR data. “Pre-processing the noisy, sparse
and large-scale EMR data is the first step. Zidi Xiu (graduate student in
biostatistics) used her advanced statistical programming skills to complete a
task that might have taken months or days in only hours.” Han said.

Antar (Trinity ’18), with his goal of attending medical school after
completing his undergraduate degree, was a constant force pushing for medical
relevance. Everything the team generated was put through this lens so that
their work could make a difference as quickly as possible.

“A couple things we found is that the earliest significant symptoms occur
about a year and a half before a stage IV diagnosis and rapid progression of
type 2 diabetes seems to be common with many patients,” Antar said. “In our
dataset, 42 percent of people went from type 2 diabetes to uncontrolled type 2
diabetes, which seems like a really high percentage of people.”

The team looked at diagnosis codes from the past 10 years in electronic
medical records and, through several machine learning algorithms, identified
several highly discriminative groups of codes that are relevant to the disease
outcome and evaluated the predictive performance.

“We’ve been trying to learn interpretable and predictive patterns from the
data and then visualize each patient on a similarity map,” Xiu said.

In the last few weeks together, Xiu tested the predictive performance of the
prototype developed to find pancreatic cancer in the Duke electronic medical
record data and observed some patients without a pancreatic cancer diagnosis
that surrounded with those with a known diagnosis.

“We think some diabetes patients might already be on their way to developing
pancreatic cancer.” Satterwhite said.

In the last week together, the team tested the ability of their supervised
topic model to find pancreatic cancer in the EMR and found patients without a
diagnosis that clustered with patients with a diagnosis, indicating possible
undiagnosed cases. While this result is preliminary, it illustrates the power
of the approach. Late stage pancreatic cancer is devastating and any edge on
it is worth pursuing.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

