

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# How Physics Explains the Evolution of Social Organization

June 20, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Constructal law reveals how people come together to have greater access to
scarce resources

A scientist at Duke University says the natural evolution of social
organizations into larger and more complex communities that exhibit distinct
hierarchies can be predicted from the same law of physics that gives rise to
tree branches and river deltas.

In a paper published June 15 in the International Journal of Energy Research,
Adrian Bejan outlines how these seemingly disparate phenomena are actually
connected through the constructal law of evolution in nature. Penned by Bejan
in 1996, the law states that for a system to survive, it must evolve over time
to increase its access to flow.

The human vascular system, for example, has evolved to provide blood flow
through a network of a few large arteries and many small capillaries. River
systems, tree branches, and modern highway and road networks show the same
principle at work. Bejan has used these insights to predict the natural
evolution and design of socioeconomic systems, the vast array of object sizes
found throughout the universe, and the modern airplane, among many others.

With his newest paper, Bejan adds to the list the tendency for living
organisms—most notably humans—to organize themselves into increasingly large
and complex societies to have access to and make better use of finite
resources. He also introduces the concept that innovation is nothing more than
an idea that liberates flow locally, and increases all of society’s access to
resources.

“Because of economies of scale, it is more efficient to move items _en masse_
rather than as individual units,” said Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of
Mechanical Engineering at Duke. “And because resources are moved over an area
on the surface of the Earth, long distribution lines are needed to move large
quantities of resources.”

In this paper, Bejan uses the commodity of hot water to illustrate his
meaning. When human society was nothing more than a collection of huts, each
building might have had its own fire to heat water. It would be much more
efficient, however, to have a single fire located in the center of the
community that could serve them all equally well.

This simple setup would soon become inefficient. As communities grew, those
living on the fringes would either have to walk further to get hot water or
build longer pipes, leading to wasted energy and heat loss.

The solution is to replace this simple radial design using only direct
connections with a tree-shaped or “dendritic” distribution architecture. Such
a structure reduces heat loss as the water is transported and requires less
power to pump it.

Bejan uses a handful of simple designs featuring both architectures to show
that the dendritic distribution solution is more efficient than the simpler
setup. The result is an effort to show why humans naturally organize
themselves into societies and why so many of the resulting distribution
systems become hierarchical as their size and complexity increase.

“Water systems typically have one large treatment plant with several pumping
stations moving from larger to smaller pipes before finally reaching
individual homes,” explained Bejan. “Electricity is similar with few power
plants and many strategically placed transformer stations. Even information
has taken this form with a few large data centers serving several tiered steps
of distribution before reaching your smartphone. And the reason these all have
a similar hierarchical architecture lies within constructal law of evolution
everywhere.”

Bejan finishes his paper by arguing that the true nature of an innovation is
simply a local design change that increases the efficiency of the distribution
of a resource to the entire population. While the individual innovator may
benefit greatly from the idea, the entire community also gains better access
to that resource, which serves to reduce overall inequality.

“The effect of innovation on controlling inequality is an argument for
spreading education, know-how, and the spirit to question and take risks,”
said Bejan. “These are the essential tools needed for generating innovation in
areas of the world not traditionally known for it.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation
(CBET-13-47188).

CITATION: “Social organization: The thermodynamic basis.” A. Bejan, U. Gunes,
M.R. Errera, B. Sahin. Int. J. Energy Res., 2018. DOI: 10.1002/er.4093

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/er.4093

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

