

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Craig Hurwitz: Bringing Financial Technology Insights to the Classroom

June 8, 2021 | Michaela Kane

As the new Executive-in-Residence with Duke Engineering’s FinTech and
Cybersecurity master’s programs, Craig S. Hurwitz, CFA will draw on his wide-
ranging industry expertise to help students find success in evolving tech
fields

Craig Hurwitz will join the Institute for Enterprise Engineering at Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering as Executive-in-Residence in FinTech
and Cybersecurity beginning July 1. With decades of experience in the
financial services industry, Hurwitz will also teach in the FinTech program,
preparing students to lead the next generation of financial innovation.

Officially launched in 2021, the Institute for Enterprise Engineering provides
professional education that combines computational technologies with
leadership training to meet fast-evolving industry needs.Among its focus areas
are financial technology, or FinTech, and cybersecurity, with a suite of
master’s and short-course programs in each area teaching both full-time
students and working professionals cutting-edge technologies such as
blockchain and machine learning to improve organizational performance and
accelerate innovation.

With extensive management and advisory experience with global organizations
such as BlackRock and PwC as well as several large banks, Hurwitz brings a
deep knowledge of industry needs and trends to the FinTech and Cybersecurity
master’s programs, which launched in 20210 and 2021 respectively.

“We are looking forward to having Craig bring his experience in industry to
support our mission of applied learning to the programs,” says Jimmie Lenz,
the academic director of the FinTech and Cybersecurity programs. “Craig’s
career has spanned the technology revolution that resulted in the formation
fields like FinTech and cybersecurity, and we’re thrilled to bring his
industry expertise to our students.”

“My goal is to provide a bridge between the complex theoretical concepts and
the realistic problems and issues students will encounter in industry,” says
Hurwitz. “I’ve been working in consulting for a long time, and to me that’s
similar to teaching in that I have an opportunity to work with and help teach
a lot of young, sharp people. I’m excited to naturally extend that work to
Duke, where I can help students find success.”

As a portfolio manager, Hurwitz was in charge of portfolios totaling more than
$1.5 billion. He also has significant experience evaluating the operating
models and risk taxonomies of many of the world’s largest financial services
companies. Beyond this work, Hurwitz has also found success in the
entrepreneurship space, where he helped create and manage two successful
start-up investment and consulting firms.

As the Executive-in-Residence at FinTech, Hurwitz will teach four courses
within the program’s ever-expanding curriculum, and he’ll connect and engage
with industry partners to help students find valuable internships and career
opportunities.

“We’re dealing with an ever-changing and growing field, where we encounter new
problems and new technologies every day,” says Hurwitz. “I think programs like
FinTech provide a cutting-edge solution to these problems, and this program’s
evolving curriculum and unique placement in the engineering school will help
our students hit the ground running. I view this experience as a natural and
exciting capstone to my career, and I couldn’t be happier to take on the
role.”

Learn more at fintech.meng.duke.edu and cybersecurity.meng.duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

