

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Creating Virtual Wind for Physical Turbines

February 3, 2015

With a grant from the Department of Energy’s Office of Science Graduate
Student Research Program, graduate student Jenni Rinker will put a more
accurate wind in the sails of turbine simulators.

It’s hard to figure out which way the wind blows. It’s full of random
fluctuations, changes of direction, currents and eddies, and it can have a
completely different profile a short distance away. And it doesn’t help that
it’s invisible.

But accurately creating computer models of the wind is important if you’re
trying to engineer a good wind turbine. With the goal of generating energy
multiple hours per day over several decades of use, a few extra percentage
points of efficiency can add up fast.

Armed with a grant from the Department of Energy’s Office of Science Graduate
Student Research (SCGSR) Program, Pratt graduate student Jenni Rinker will try
to put a more accurate wind in the sails of turbine simulators. She’ll spend
an entire year working on her dissertation at the National Wind Technology
Center (NWTC) in Boulder, Colorado, which is part of the National Renewable
Energy Laboratory.

“If the wind you’re using in computer simulations of wind turbines doesn’t
look like real wind, then your results are going to be terrible,” said Rinker,
a PhD student in the mechanical engineering and materials science department,
who completed her MS in the civil and environmental engineering department and
came to Duke from Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, California. “So I am
trying to develop new statistics and data validation to improve our simulation
methods.”

The SCGSR Program provides graduate students research opportunities at DOE
laboratories while working on projects deemed critically important to the DOE
Office of Science mission. The research advances the graduate students’
overall doctoral theses while providing them access to the expertise,
resources and capabilities available at DOE laboratories.

Rinker caught wind of the program while working on her research last summer at
NWTC. As part of Duke’s PhD Plus program, which helps graduate students
prepare for the career world, she was strongly encouraged to seek an
internship. With this encouragement, Rinker contacted the laboratory’s chief
engineer, Paul Veers, to ask for one.

“It was an unusual situation because I didn’t actually have a position at
NWTC, but my advisor was supportive of me continuing my research there, and
Dr. Veers let me have some desk space for a couple of months,” said Rinker,
whose advisor is Henri Gavin, the Yoh Family Associate Professor of Civil and
Environmental Engineering and an associate professor of mechanical engineering
and materials science. “The quality of my research improved a lot just from
the conversations I was able to have with people there. I would encourage
anyone to try to get a similar opportunity if possible—it goes a lot further
than you would think.”

While getting to know the people in Boulder, Rinker found her work fit into
the laboratory’s puzzle quite well; many of the researchers were interested in
looking into computer wind simulations but hadn’t had the time. One engineer
in particular, Andy Clifton, suggested that Rinker apply for the SCGSR grant
so that she could continue her work at the center officially.

Now, with the help of Clifton, Rinker will be delving into a gigantic wind
dataset that is constantly being updated by the meteorological tower at the
lab. She’ll spend the first half of her visit devising new ways of measuring
wind flows important to turbines and creating a better computer algorithm for
generating virtual wind. The second half of her stay will focus on showing
that her new method provides better results than current methods when plugged
into wind turbine simulations.

“It’s an incredibly complex problem just in the math and science alone,” said
Rinker. “And of course it’s always nice to be working on research that you
really appreciate the end goal of. I think wind energy is extremely important
to the world’s future.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

