

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering "Hairpins" Increases CRISPR Accuracy

April 15, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Added piece of RNA could improve the precision of CRISPR 50-fold

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed a method for improving
the accuracy of the CRISPR genome editing technology by an average of 50-fold.
They believe it can be easily translated to any of the editing technology’s
continually expanding formats.

The approach adds a short tail to the guide RNA which is used to identify a
sequence of DNA for editing. This added tail folds back and binds onto itself,
creating a “lock” that can only be undone by the targeted DNA sequence.

The study appears online on April 15 in the journal _Nature Biotechnology_.

“CRISPR is generally incredibly accurate, but there are examples that have
shown off-target activity, so there’s been broad interest across the field in
increasing specificity,” said Charles Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke. “But the solutions proposed thus
far cannot be easily translated between different CRISPR systems.”

CRISPR/Cas9 is a defense system that bacteria use to target and cleave the DNA
of invading viruses. While the first version of CRISPR technology engineered
to work in human cells originated from a bacteria called _Streptococcus
pyogenes_ , many more bacteria species carry other versions.

Scientists in the field have spent years looking for new CRISPR systems with
desirable properties and are constantly adding to the CRISPR arsenal. For
example, some systems are smaller and better able to fit inside of a viral
vector to deliver to human cells for gene therapy. But no matter their
individual abilities, all have produced unwanted genetic edits at times.

A universal property of CRISPR systems is their use of RNA molecules as guides
that home in on the targeted DNA sequence in the genome. Once a guide RNA
finds its complementary genetic sequence, the Cas9 enzyme acts as the scissors
that make the cut in the DNA, facilitating changes to the genome sequence. But
because each homing sequence is only 20 nucleotides long and the human genome
contains about three billion base pairs, there’s a lot to sort through, and
the CRISPR can sometimes make mistakes with sequences one or two base pairs
short of perfection.

One way to improve CRISPR’s accuracy is to require two Cas9 molecules to bind
onto opposite sides of the same DNA sequence for a complete cut to be made.
While this approach works, it adds more parts to the system, increasing its
complexity and making it harder to deliver.

Another approach has been to genetically engineer the Cas9 protein to make it
less energetic, so it’s less likely to jump the gun and make a mistake. While
this has also shown promising results, this type of protein engineering is
laborious and such efforts are specific to each CRISPR system.

“It seems like there’s a new CRISPR system being discovered almost every week
that has some kind of unique property that makes it useful for a specific
application,” said Gersbach. “Doing extensive re-engineering every time we
find a new CRISPR protein to make it more accurate is not a straightforward
solution.”

“We’re focused on a solution that doesn’t add more parts and is general to any
kind of CRISPR system,” said Dewran Kocak, the PhD student working in
Gersbach’s laboratory who led this project. “What’s common to all CRISPR
systems is the guide RNA, and these short RNAs are much easier to engineer.”

Gersbach and Kocak’s solution is to extend the guide RNA by as many as 20
nucleotides in such a way that it folds back onto itself and binds onto the
end of the original guide RNA, forming a hairpin shape. This creates a sort of
lock that is very difficult to displace if even a single base pair is
incorrect in a DNA sequence being scrutinized for a potential cut. But because
the guide RNA would prefer to bind to DNA rather than itself, the correct
combination of DNA is still able to break the lock.

“We’re able to fine-tune the strength of the lock just enough so that the
guide RNA still works when it meets its correct match,” said Kocak.

In the paper, Kocak and Gersbach show that this method can increase the
accuracy of cuts being made in human cells by an average of 50-fold across
five different CRISPR systems derived from four different bacterial strains.
And in one case that improvement rose to over 200 fold.

“It’s a pretty simple idea even though Dewran completed several years’ worth
of research to show that it works the way that we think it’s working,” said
Gersbach. “It’s a nice, elegant solution for getting rid of off-target
activity.”

Moving forward, the researchers hope to see just how many different CRISPR
variants this approach could work with as well as complete an in-depth
characterization of exactly how the locking mechanism works to see if there
are differences across CRISPR variants. And because these experiments were
conducted in cultured cells, the researchers are eager to see how well this
approach might increase CRISPR accuracy within an actual animal model of
disease.

This work was supported by the Paul G. Allen Frontiers Group, the National
Institutes of Health (DP2OD008586, R01DA036865, R01AR069085, P30AR066527) and
the National Science Foundation (DMR-1709527, EFMA-1830957).

CITATION: “Increasing the Specificity of CRISPR Systems with Engineered RNA
Secondary Structures.” D. Dewran Kocak, Eric A. Josephs, Vidit Bhandarkar,
Shaunak S. Adkar, Jennifer B. Kwon, and Charles A. Gersbach. Nature
Biotechnology, 2019. DOI: 10.1038/s41587-019-0095-1

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

