

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Crystallization Frustration Predicts Metallic Glass Formation

August 1, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Research could pave the way for new strong, conductive materials

Researchers have discovered a way to predict which alloys will form metallic
glasses. The research could pave the way for new strong, conductive materials.

Metallic glasses are sometimes formed when molten metal is cooled too fast for
its atoms to arrange in a structured, crystalline order. The result is a
material with numerous desirable properties. Because they are metals, metallic
glasses have high hardness and toughness and good thermal conductivity.
Because their structure is disorganized, they are easy to process and shape
and difficult to corrode. Thanks to these characteristics, metallic glasses
are used in a wide array of applications, including electrical applications,
nuclear reactor engineering, medical industries, structural reinforcement and
razor blades.

While metallic glass has been around for decades, scientists have no clue
which combinations of elements will form them. The only way to come up with
new metallic glasses to date has been to cook up new recipes in the laboratory
with only a few rules of thumb for guidance and hope for the best—a costly
endeavor in both time and money.

In a new study, however, researchers from Duke University, in collaboration
with groups from Harvard University and Yale University, describe a method
that can predict which binary alloys will form metallic glasses. Their
technique involves computing and comparing the many pockets of different
structures and energies that could be found within a solidified alloy.

The results were published August 2, 2016, in Nature Communications.

"When you get a lot of structures forming next to one another that are
different but still have similar internal energies, you get a sort of
frustration as the material tries to crystalize," said Eric Perim, a
postdoctoral researcher working in the laboratory of Stefano Curtarolo,
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science and director of the
Center for Materials Genomics at Duke. "The material can't decide which
crystalline structure it wants to converge to, and a metallic glass emerges.
What we created is basically a measure of that confusion."

To determine the likelihood of an alloy forming a glass, Curtarolo, Perim and
their colleagues broke its chemistry down into numerous sections, each
containing only a handful of atoms. They then turned to a prototype database
to simulate the hundreds of structures each section could potentially take.

Called the AFLOW library, the database stores information on atomic structures
that are commonly observed in nature. Using these examples, the program
computes what a novel combination of elements would look like with these
structures. For example, the atomic structure of sodium chloride—better known
as salt—may be used to build a potential structure for copper zirconium.

These simulations produce estimations of characteristics for hundreds of
structural forms that a material could take. One characteristic, called an
atomic environment, looks at the geometrical arrangement of an atom's closest
neighbors. Another calculates the amount of energy stored in each of these
atomic structures.

To determine the likelihood of an alloy forming a metallic glass, the program
compares these two characteristics between the hundreds of different
structures that could be found throughout the material. If groups of atoms
near one another have similar energies, they want to form similar structures.
But if the rapid cooling prevents this, a metallic glass emerges.

"The big advantage to our work is that it's high-throughput, because doing
this experimentally is way too time-consuming," said Cormac Toher, an
assistant research professor in Curtarolo's laboratory. "You cannot check all
compositions of all systems in the laboratory. That would literally take
forever. The idea behind this is that we can screen a large number of
materials in a couple of days and single out the most likely ones that should
be checked out."

The group then put their confusion-measuring program to the test to see if it
could accurately predict metallic glasses that are already known. They were
able to correctly identify 73 percent—a number they hope will improve as they
continue to increase the structural information and simulations stored in
their database.

Based on their initial work, they believe about one-sixth of the alloys in
their system should make metallic glass. That's more than 250 potential
materials, of which only about a couple dozen have been discovered.

"If you go to Venice you'll see people blowing bottles of glass," said
Curtarolo. "You can do that with metallic glasses as well. You can make
lightweight, very durable objects without any seams. But trying to scale these
up is difficult. The larger the lump, the longer it takes its center to cool,
and the more likely it is to form a normal crystalline structure. But there
might be undiscovered chemical combinations that would be easier to work with,
cost less, or have other, more desirable properties. We just have to figure
out where to look for them."

Besides refining their results for binary alloys, the researchers plan to
extend their algorithm to alloys that contain three elements, as they are more
likely to form glasses but are much more difficult and time-consuming to
model. Their database, however, has only about one-tenth of the entries for
these alloys as it does for binary alloys, so computer clusters around the
world will first need to work for some time to come.

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (DMR-1436151,
DMR-1436268, DMR-1435820).

CITATION: "Spectral Descriptors for Bulk Metallic Glasses Based on the
Thermodynamics of Competing Crystalline Phases." Eric Perim, Dongwoo Lee,
Yanhui Liu, Cormac Toher, Pan Gong, Yanglin Li, W. Neal Simmons, Ohad Levy,
Joost J. Vlassak, Jan Schroers and Stefano Curtarolo. Nature Communications,
Aug. 2, 2016. DOI: 10.1038/NCOMMS12315

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

