

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cultivating a Community of Biomaterials Researchers

August 10, 2018

Duke BME Biomaterials Symposium gives graduate students and postdocs a new
platform to share research

With research ranging from gels to improve wound repair to a rapid diagnostic
test for Ebola, the first-annual Biomaterials Symposium showcased the variety
of biomaterials research taking place in Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering.

Duke BME has been home to a diverse and longstanding research community in
biomaterials, which is the study and designing of non-living materials and
devices that interact with biological systems. The biomaterials research
community at Duke is supported by the Research Triangle NSF Materials Research
Science and Engineering Center (RT-MRSEC), and the Center for Biomolecular and
Tissue Engineering (CBTE).

In an effort to give graduate students and postdoctoral fellows new
opportunities to collaborate and share their research, faculty and students
organized the Duke BME Biomaterials Symposium.

“We wanted to show everyone that there was a large community of biomaterials
researchers at Duke who could offer guidance and support,” says Tatiana
Segura, a professor in Duke BME. “We organized the symposium to give everyone
a chance to learn more about what their peers are doing and to cultivate new
partnerships.”

Research in the broad field of biomaterials has led to the development a wide
variety of implantable biomedical devices, and it continues to be central to
the introduction of new medical therapies. With presentations from students in
the labs of Ashutosh Chilkoti, Joel Collier, Jennifer West, Segura, Ravi
Bellamkonda Shyni Varghese and Brent Hoffman, the presenters showcased the
breadth of biomaterials research currently being pursued at Duke, ranging from
engineered tissues to delivery vehicles for genes and drugs, diagnostic
devices and immune therapies.

Following the presentations, the symposium attendees voted on the best
presentations, awarding Lucas Schirmer, a postdoctoral fellow in the Segura
lab, first place for his presentation on hydrogels that can improve treatment
of chronic dermal wounds. Joshua Hammmer, a PhD student in the West lab, was
awarded second place for his research, “Biochemical Modification of PEG
Hydrogels Using SpyCather, a Genetically-Encoded “click” Reaction.”

In addition to the research presentations, scientists were encouraged to
create art for the symposium, with many choosing to create images using
materials from their labs. The event also featured a social hour, where
students could ask more in-depth questions about presentations they were
interested in and get to know those in the Duke BME biomaterials world.

“There is such a diversity of biomedical engineering research at Duke that
it’s difficult to foster a research community that includes the entire
department,” says Sean Kelly, a PhD student in the Collier lab. “Having an
opportunity to bring together the biomaterials groups within the department is
a great way to build relationships and discover new opportunities for
collaboration.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

