

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cynthia Rudin: Interpretable Machine Learning for All

February 15, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Data in, decisions out: New faculty member Cynthia Rudin designs algorithms to
help professionals turn raw information into informed choices

Cynthia Rudin has joined the faculty of the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering in Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering with a
dual appointment in the Department of Computer Science. A rising star in the
swiftly growing field of machine learning, Rudin focuses on writing algorithms
that are easily interpretable by human experts for practical tasks like
predicting energy grid reliability or diagnosing sleep apnea.

In machine learning, researchers teach computers how to learn from data,
because while humans can’t easily find patterns in large datasets, a computer
can. Machine learning algorithms can often make surprisingly accurate
predictions. How exactly the machine learning algorithm arrives at those
predictions, however, is not always clear.

“A lot of machine learning takes place with huge datasets where the inner
workings of the codes are a ‘black box’ that nobody can see into,” said Rudin,
who joins Duke from the faculty at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
and runs the Prediction Analysis Lab at Duke. “But I work on problems where
the models clearly show how they produce their conclusions. This makes it
easier for people to actually use the results to make decisions. ”

One type of machine learning model that Rudin particularly likes is called a
Falling Rule List. Invented by Prediction Analysis Lab member Fulton Wang and
also under development by PhD student Chaofan Chen, the model looks for high
risk categories of medical patients first, then medium risk categories, and
then low risk categories.

A Falling Rule List could use data from electronic health records to predict
how likely individuals are to be readmitted to a hospital after they were
released. The top category might contain patients who have serious problems
and do not follow their doctor’s instructions, listing their chances of being
readmitted as 92 percent. The bottom category might have the most compliant,
healthiest patients at 10 percent.

With many tiers in between where a patient could fall, a physician might
easily determine why the algorithm listed a patient at a particular level of
risk.

“These types of machine learning models are perfect for healthcare situations
because doctors need to be able to explain their decisions and recommendations
to their patients,” said Rudin. “And to do that, they have to be able to
interpret the results themselves.”

Interpretability, however, sometimes come at a cost—either a loss of accuracy
or the need for a large amount of computational power. Rudin’s goal, then, is
to determine just how many constraints the model can withstand without losing
too much accuracy and still being able to fully optimize the code to avoid
taking until the end of the universe to complete the computation.

It’s a goal that Rudin has achieved time and again, having already won an NSF
CAREER award, the INFORMS Innovative Applications in Analytics Award, and an
Adobe Digital Marketing Research Award, and having been named one of the 12
most impressive professors at MIT by Business Insider in 2015. In the last
year, her team has worked on predicting criminal recidivism, diagnosing sleep
apnea, and creating an app to improve recovery from prostatectomy surgery,
using different flavors of interpretable machine learning and statistical
algorithms.

And she’s having no trouble finding collaborators in her new position at
Duke—already, she has started projects with faculty across campus. Her new
collaborators are part of what drew Rudin to Duke.

“The people here are fantastic, and as an academic, good people are always the
major draw,” said Rudin. “Duke has a huge amount of expertise in my area of
research. It may be a small university, but it is incredibly strong—Duke
really is a superpower in this area.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

