

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Daniel Reker: Using Machine Learning to Explore New and Existing Therapies

May 29, 2020

New faculty member Daniel Reker uses active machine learning to analyze and
design new drug therapies for use against cancer and infectious diseases

Daniel Reker will join Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering
beginning September 1, 2020. With research at the intersection of
computational and molecular biology, data science and engineering, Reker
specializes in using machine learning and modeling to explore how drugs,
excipients and nanoparticles behave once they enter the body. Reker will
contribute his expertise to a growing community of faculty focused on
biomedical and health data science at Duke.

## Daniel Reker

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering (September 1, 2020)

**Hometown:** Frankfurt, Germany

**Alma Maters:** TU Darmstadt, ETH Zurich

**Representative Publication:** Reker _et al_. bioRxiv 2019,
https://doi.org/10.1101/786251.

**Fun Facts:** Marathon runner (3:38); won 12 medals as member of the Hessian
National competitive ballroom dancing squad

Currently a SNSF postdoctoral fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Reker works in the lab of Robert Langer—the most cited engineer in
history—at the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research. Reker’s primary
projects have involved developing new machine learning approaches to design
novel formulations and self-assembling nanoparticles that can more effectively
deliver drugs. He uses a similar approach to explore the biological effects
and limitations of therapies for different types of cancer and infectious
diseases like malaria, HIV and­­­­—most recently—COVID-19.

Reker will continue this work in his new role at Duke, where his lab will
combine computational work with wet-lab experiments to analyze and design drug
therapies. A key component of this research involves active machine learning.
Traditional machine learning algorithms work with large data sets to develop
formulas and make predictions. But with active machine learning, the
algorithms are able to ask questions or request that the researchers provide
more information if the algorithm has identified a gap in the data. This
allows the model to be more efficient, and allows for more comprehensive
prediction.

“There are still practical concerns that need to be addressed with this
approach, but my lab will mature it and apply it to create models for how
molecules move through and interact with the body,” says Reker. “For example,
we could study a medication that failed in a clinical trial and use active
machine learning to explore specifically why the drug failed, whether it was a
negative drug action or an issue with the body’s biology. That knowledge could
help us salvage the failed drug by tweaking it or by generating novel delivery
modes to create a more effective therapy.”

## Why Duke?

> “Duke was a huge draw for me because it’s such a uniquely collaborative
> environment, where I can easily work with researchers across different
> departments or simply walk across the street if I want to collaborate with
> any clinical partners at the hospital.”
>
> —Daniel Reker

Although a majority of his current work takes place in the lab, he’s also
fostered collaborations with clinicians and pharmacists at the Brigham and
Women’s Hospital in Boston to better understand how his techniques could
translate to patients. Now, Reker is looking forward to bringing a similar
collaborative spirit to Duke.

“My work involves chemistry, bioinformatics, pharmacology, computer science
and biomedical engineering, and that means that collaboration is key,” he
says. “Duke was a huge draw for me because it’s such a uniquely collaborative
environment, where I can easily work with researchers across different
departments or simply walk across the street if I want to collaborate with any
clinical partners at the hospital.

“I’m also excited to be working so close to Research Triangle Park, which will
hopefully enable lots of cool interactions and make potential collaborations
easier. A lot of my work is relevant to the pharmaceutical and biotech
industry, so this is really a prime place for me to be.”

For Reker, who received both his PhD in Pharmaceutical Sciences and a master’s
degree in computational biology and bioinformatics from ETH Zurich, his new
role also provides him with an exciting opportunity to mentor and connect with
students.

“I supervise students with backgrounds ranging from experimental biology and
chemistry to computer science. Working with students and being able to help
guide their career paths was something that always attracted me to academia,”
he says. “My undergraduate degree was in computer science, and I’ve been able
to coalesce different fields through my academic career because of the support
I had. Now, I want to make sure that students feel empowered and supported to
choose their own path.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

