

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Homing System Delivers Drugs To Specific Neurons

April 6, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

New technique reveals synaptic contributions to Parkinson's Disease

Biomedical engineers have developed a way to deliver drugs to specific types
of neurons in the brain, providing an unprecedented ability to study
neurological diseases while also promising a more targeted way to treat them.

Drugs are the tool of choice for studying the connections between neurons, and
continue to be the mainstream treatment for neurological disease. But a major
drawback in both endeavors is that the drugs affect all types of neurons,
complicating the study of how cell receptors in the synapse—the gap between
neurons—work in an intact brain, and how their manipulation can lead to
clinical benefits and side effects.

A new method named DART (Drugs Acutely Restricted by Tethering) may overcome
these limitations. Developed by researchers at Duke University and the Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, DART offers researchers the first opportunity to
test what happens when a drug is targeted exclusively to one cell type.

In its inaugural study, DART reveals how movement difficulties in a mouse
model of Parkinson’s Disease are controlled by the AMPA receptor (AMPAR)—a
synaptic protein that enables neurons to receive fast incoming signals from
other neurons in the brain. The results reveal why a recent clinical trial of
an AMPAR-blocking drug failed, and offer a new approach to using the
pharmaceutical.

The paper appeared online on April 7, 2017 in the journal Science.

“This study marks a major milestone in behavioral neuropharmacology,” said
Michael Tadross, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, who is in the
process of moving his laboratory from the HHMI Janelia Research Campus to
Duke. “The insights we gained in studying Parkinson’s mice were unexpected and
could not have been obtained with any previous method.”

DART works by genetically programming a specific cell type to express a sort
of GPS beacon. The “beacon” is an enzyme borrowed from bacteria that is
inert—it does nothing more than sit on the cell surface. Nothing, that is,
until researchers deliver drugs loaded with a special homing device.

Researchers administer these drugs at such low doses that they do not affect
other cells. Because the homing system is so efficient, however, the drug is
captured by the tagged cells’ surface, accumulating within minutes to
concentrations that are 100 to 1,000 times higher than anywhere else.

In an experiment using a mouse model of Parkinson’s disease, Tadross and
colleagues attached the homing signal beacon to two types of neurons found in
the basal ganglia—the region of the brain responsible for motor control. One
type, referred to as D1 neurons, are believed to give a “go” command. The
other, referred to as D2 neurons, are thought to do just the opposite,
providing commands to stop movements.

Using DART, Tadross delivered an AMPAR-blocking pharmaceutical to only
D1-neurons, only D2-neurons, or both. When delivered to both cell types
simultaneously, the drugs improved only one of several components of motor
dysfunction—mirroring the lackluster results of recent human clinical trials.
The team then found that delivering the drug to only the D1/”go” neurons did
absolutely nothing. Surprisingly, however, by targeting the same drug to
D2/”stop” neurons, the mice’s movements became more frequent, faster, fluid
and linear—in other words, much closer to normal.

While the drug stops neurons from receiving certain incoming signals, it does
not completely shut them down. This nuance is particularly important for a
subset of the D2 neurons that have two prominent forms of firing. With DART,
these components could be separately manipulated, providing the first evidence
that Parkinson’s motor deficits are attributable to the AMPAR-based component
of firing in these cells. Tadross said this level of nuance could not have
been obtained with prior cell type-specific methods that completely shut
neurons down.

“Already in our first use of DART, we’ve learned something new about the
synaptic basis of circuit dysfunction in Parkinson’s disease,” said Tadross.
“We’ve discovered that targeting a specific receptor on specific types of
neurons can lead to surprisingly potent improvements.”

Tadross is already looking into how this discovery might translate into a new
therapy by delivering drugs to these neurons through an emerging viral
technique. He is also beginning work to develop a version of DART that does
not need the genetically added homing beacon to work. Both efforts will
require years of research before seeing fruition—but that’s not stopping
Tadross.

“All too often in basic science, approaches are developed that may ‘one day’
make a difference to human health,” he said. “At Duke, there's a palpable
emphasis on providing new treatments to people as quickly as possible. I'm
very excited that in this environment, my lab can work collaboratively with
scientists, physicians, and biotech to solve the real-world challenges
involved.”

This research was funded by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.

CITATION: “Deconstructing behavioral neuropharmacology with cellular
specificity.” Brenda C. Shields, Elizabeth Kahuno, Charles Kim, Pierre
Apostolides, Jennifer Brown, Sarah Lindo, Brett D. Mensh, Joshua T. Dudman,
Luke D. Lavis and Michael R. Tadross. Science, 2017. DOI:
10.1126/science.aaj2161

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

