

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# David Mitzi: Harvesting More of the Sun’s Shine

August 18, 2014

Developing new materials that can compete with silicon and other emerging
technologies in solar cells

David Mitzi, an expert in developing new materials for solar cell and other
energy applications, has joined the mechanical engineering and materials
science department in Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering. His
research will focus on making emerging photovoltaic materials more effective,
cost-efficient and competitive for the energy market.

Nearly 80 percent of today’s solar cell market relies on silicon technology,
which requires high-quality, single-crystal materials and relatively thick
cells to harness the sun’s energy and is expensive to produce.

Mitzi’s research program will initially pursue two classes of materials with
promise to outcompete silicon: perovskites and chalcogenides. Perovskites can
combine organic/inorganic materials and functionality within a specific
crystalline structure. Chalcogenides are compounds based on sulfur, selenium
or tellurium, and have at least two examples already being significantly
commercialized.

“The potential of these materials to revolutionize solar cells is very
exciting,” said Mitzi, who joins Duke’s faculty from IBM’s T.J. Watson
Research Center, where he has spent the past 22 years researching photovoltaic
technology and more generally the search for and application of new electronic
materials. “However, they’re relatively new and there are many questions that
remain.”

In the case of perovskite materials, Mitzi has three goals. The first is to
make them better suited for wide use in solar cells by removing the toxic
heavy metal lead that the current generation of materials is based on. He also
wants to improve their stability, as they are typically susceptible to
moisture and air, and raise their performance in converting sunlight to usable
energy to above 20 percent efficiency.

For the chalcogenides, Mitzi wants to replace the indium and gallium used in
the current materials produced by emerging solar cell companies with zinc, tin
and other low-cost and abundant metals. Indium is one of the rarest metals in
the Earth’s crust and not uniformly distributed geopolitically. Roughly 70
percent of the world’s production is based in China.

The challenge Mitzi faces is getting the efficiency of the more earth-abundant
metal-based devices to match that of the already proven materials. His group
at IBM set the world record in efficiency for the upcoming zinc-tin material,
however, and continues to push its performance level higher.

“I’d also like to diversify by looking into materials for other energy
applications, such as storage and transmission,” said Mitzi. “If solar energy
is ever going to make up more than 10 percent of our country’s infrastructure,
these are problems that will have to be addressed.”

Mitzi began looking for academic posts where he could avoid the big city and
find an intimate setting where he could interact with students on a regular
basis. He was attracted to Duke partly by the number of colleagues he could
see himself collaborating with, including Stefano Curtarolo, whose Center for
Materials Genomics is using supercomputers to predict what undiscovered
materials might have properties well-suited for energy initiatives. He also
wanted to join an institution that was making energy concerns a priority.

“I was looking to move to somewhere that is making the very important
challenge of energy a centerpiece of the program being constructed,” said
Mitzi, who in his spare time is exploring all of the trails to run and
mountain paths to explore that North Carolina has to offer. “The photovoltaic
effort at Duke is one that is just getting started, but I think I can help
develop this area and build it into one of the premier programs in the field.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

