

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# David Mitzi wins 2020 ACS National Award for Chemistry of Materials

August 27, 2019

Mitzi recognized for revolutionary materials science work in energy
applications

David Mitzi, the Simon Family Professor of Duke Engineering and a faculty
member in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, has
won the 2020 American Chemical Society National Award in the Chemistry of
Materials, sponsored by DuPont.

To gain consideration for the award, which was established in 1988, a nominee
must have made outstanding contributions to the chemistry of materials that
have an actual or potential technological importance.

The focus of Mitzi's work is on designing low-cost, high-performance materials
for the solar energy market. The award nomination cited his "pioneering
contributions to the discovery, fundamental chemistry, processing and
application of halide perovskite semiconductors."

"Halide perovskite semiconductors are now being developed for next-generation
solar cells, as well as light-emitting diodes, photodetectors, spintronics,
quantum wells, and even low cost, high-sensitivity radiation detectors for
medical imaging," said David Ginger, Kwiram Professor of Chemistry and Chief
Scientist of the University of Washington Clean Energy Institute, who
nominated Mitzi for the award. "This field stands today, in no small part, on
a series of seminal papers, spanning over two decades, in which Mitzi and his
group pioneered crystal growth, film formation, and structure-property studies
within the halide perovskite semiconductor family."

> "It's hard to believe now, but there was a time when these materials were
> basically curiosity items."
>
> -STEPHEN CRAIG, WILLIAM T. MIller PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY AT DUKE UNIVERSITY

"Look almost anywhere that matters in the field of energy materials, and
you're going to see perovskites mentioned over and over again," said Stephen
Craig, the William T. Miller Professor of Chemistry at Duke University and a
colleague of Mitzi. "It's hard to believe now, but there was a time when these
materials were basically curiosity items. David's work was insightful and
years ahead of its time, and it ultimately changed the landscape of materials
used for energy and optoelectronics."

Mitzi received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering and Engineering Physics from
Princeton University in 1985 and his Ph.D. in Applied Physics from Stanford
University in 1990. Prior to joining the faculty at Duke in 2014, Dr. Mitzi
spent 23 years at IBM's T.J. Watson Research Center; in his final five years
at IBM, he served as manager for the Photovoltaic Science and Technology
Department.

Mitzi holds a number of patents, and has authored or coauthored more than 200
papers and book chapters. He was named a "Highly Cited Researcher" in the
field of materials science by Clarivate Analytics in 2018, putting him in the
top one percent by number of published paper citations.

The American Chemical Society will present the National Award in the Chemistry
of Materials to Mitzi at 259th American Chemical Society Spring meeting in
Philadelphia in the spring of 2020.

Mitzi was one of three chemists with Duke affiliations honored with ACS
awards. Read about the others on Duke Today.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

