

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# David Needham Named Honorary Professor of Pharmacy at the University of
Nottingham

July 18, 2014

Affiliation will encourage collaboration with one of the top pharmacy schools
in the world

David Needham has a way of drawing research departments together. Already at
Duke, he is a professor of mechanical engineering and materials science and
has affiliations with biomedical engineering, the Center for Bioinspired
Materials and Material Systems, the Center for Biomolecular and Tissue
Engineering, and the Duke Comprehensive Cancer Center. And just last year,
Needham took up a five-year, $6 million post across the pond as the Niels Bohr
Professor in the Department of Physics Chemistry and Pharmacy at the
University of Southern Denmark.

Now, Needham has added another affiliation to his title that will encourage
collaboration with one of the top pharmacy schools in the world. Beginning
August 1, 2014, Needham will become an honorary professor in the pharmacy
school at the University of Nottingham.

“I am thrilled and honored to accept this honorary professorship,” said
Needham, who earned his BSc in applied chemistry from Trent (Nottingham)
Polytechnic, and a PhD in physical chemistry under the mentorship of Professor
Daniel D Eley, PhD, ScD, (Cambridge) CChem, FRSC, FRS, OBE from the University
of Nottingham in 1981. “It will be nice to ‘come home’ so to speak.”

Needham’s research centers on the study of single microparticles one particle
at a time. This line of research is important to many other fields in which
colloids, surfaces, nanoscience and nanotechnology impact food, drugs,
pollutant control, or consumer products, such as paint and toothpaste.
Biologically, this field of study impacts how all the cells of every living
organism on the planet functions.

While at Duke, Needham has focused on developing novel strategies for using
micro- and nanotechnology to improve drug delivery, especially for cancer
treatments. In a long time-collaboration with Mark Dewhirst in radiation
oncology spanning 22 years, one invention of Needham’s uses heat-sensitive
tiny fat nanocapsules to deliver cancer therapeutics to tumors that could be
gently warmed to temperatures only just above body temperature.

Reported in many papers over the years but shown very graphically in a recent
paper published in the Journal of Cancer Research led by Dewhirst’s then
graduate student Ashley Manzoor, the technology traps the cancer drugs until
they pass through the bloodstream of a warmed tumor, at which point openings
are created releasing the cancer drugs that penetrate deep into every cell in
the tumor.

In Denmark, he says he was “given six million dollars to do whatever I liked!”

What he likes is setting up a new world-class center for Single Particle
Science and Engineering (SPSE). SPSE is an interdisciplinary research center
concerned with experimental and theoretical research within the broad field of
colloid and (bio)surface science, that uses Needham’s signature technique of
micropipet manipulation of gas, liquid, and solid microparticles.

His new role at the University of Nottingham will also include helping
implement his EDU-Kation pedagogy into classes. **EDU-K** stands for: **E**
xperiment and **D** iscover (themselves), **U** ncover (principles with
experts), leading to the student’s new **K** nowledge. Developed and
implemented at Duke since 2003 with students ranging from freshmen to PhD
graduates in a wide variety of fields including biomedical engineering,
thermodynamics, materials science, and now pharmacy, this novel learning
pedagogy, when used with a content framework of design, allows students to
reverse-engineer a problem that has already been solved by scientists,
engineers or even nature. Besides giving insights into how things work, the
approach can also be used to reverse-engineer system failures to look into how
something might be broken.

“It’s an invention generator,” says Needham.

But the one project that now commands most of his attention is how to treat
metastatic cancer. Responding to several Duke clinicians who were desperate
for better therapeutic interventions for their patients, Needham started using
his own methods for education to reverse engineer the way the body delivers
its own very waxy molecules like cholesterol, called Low Density Lipoprotein
particles (or LDLs). Researching the literature, he found that cancers are
avaricious consumers of these LDLs.

In 2011, he wondered if cancer could be treated by putting the drugs in the
tumor’s food. Now, in his first year in Denmark, Needham and his new team of
postdocs, PhD and master’s students, and other collaborators, are establishing
the feasibility of this concept. He is busy setting up collaborations back at
Duke members of the oncology and research community, hoping to bring the new
anti-cancer drug nanoparticles back to campus for testing.

“This new appointment as an Honorary Professor will encourage new
collaboration with the University of Nottingham’s pharmacy school and also
allow me to help in their education, bringing my EDU-Kation pedagogy and
‘reverse engineering problems pharmacists solved’ to their curriculum,” said
Needham. “It will also serve as a link between the University of Nottingham,
the University of Southern Denmark and Duke University. I expect many fruitful
collaborations and exchanges to emerge from these new ties.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

