

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Design Health Team Places on International Top 20 Shortlist for 2021 James
Dyson Award

October 13, 2021 | Michaela Kane

With a device to make cardiovascular procedures safer, Duke’s ArchGuard team
was recognized out of 2,000 applicants

A team of graduates from Duke University’s Design Health program were selected
as finalists for the 2021 James Dyson Award. Organized by the James Dyson
Foundation, the prestigious engineering and design competition aims to
celebrate, encourage and inspire the next generation of design engineers.

The 2021 competition had a record-breaking number of entries, with over 2,000
submissions from across the globe.

Design Health students Kevin Rosenthal, Len Assakul, Pratik Doshi, Anish
Nigade and Kelly Yang were named on the recently announced International Top
20 Shortlist for their invention, ArchGuard. This shortlist is selected by
Dyson engineers, and it recognizes the strongest problem-solving inventions.
Teams that are shortlisted for the final prize will be reviewed by engineer
and inventor Sir James Dyson, who will hand-pick the winner. The winning
international team will receive a cash prize of $40,000.

ArchGuard aims to make minimally invasive cardiovascular procedures safer. The
tool is a novel cerebral protection device for use in interventional
cardiology procedures to prevent dislodged debris from traveling to the brain
and causing strokes or silent ischemia. ArchGuard offers complete cerebral
protection using a shape-memory frame and porous mesh to deflect debris away
from the brain, making it unique compared to existing devices.

The tool was developed by Rosenthal, MS’20 in mechanical engineering, Assakul,
an MBA candidate from the Fuqua School of Business, Doshi, a medical student
at the Duke University Medical Center, Nigade, MS’20 in biomedical
engineering, and Yang, BS’21. These students participated in Duke
Engineering’s Design Health Program, which is a patient-focused design program
that teaches student teams how to identify pressing needs in health care and
design innovative solutions. The program assembles teams across engineering,
business, medicine and other disciples to create practical, real-world
devices. The ArchGuard team recently won a $100,000 TMC Innovation Healthcare
Investment Prize from the Rice Business Plan Competition for their project.
More information about the team and their project is available on the James
Dyson competition site. The entire International Top 20 Shortlist is also
available to view.

"Looking back on our engineering design process and looking ahead at what is
to come, we are honored and thrilled to have made it into the Top 20 of the
James Dyson Award competition,” Rosenthal, the team leader, said in a press
release. “We are eager to use this accomplishment as a stepping stone as we
continue to develop ArchGuard towards becoming the standard of care in
cerebrovascular protection."

Sir James Dyson will announce his selection for the international winners on
November 17, 2021. The announcement will be available on the Dyson Newsroom.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

