

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Absorbing Electromagnetic Energy While Avoiding the Heat

January 27, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

First demonstration of a metal-free metamaterial that can absorb
electromagnetic energy

Electrical engineers at Duke University have created the world's first
electromagnetic metamaterial made without any metal. The device's ability to
absorb electromagnetic energy without heating up has direct applications in
imaging, sensing and lighting.

Metamaterials are synthetic materials composed of many individual, engineered
features that together produce properties not found in nature. Imagine an
electromagnetic wave moving through a flat surface made of thousands of tiny
electrical cells. If researchers can tune each cell to manipulate the wave in
a specific way, they can dictate exactly how the wave behaves as a whole.

For researchers to manipulate electromagnetic waves, however, they've
typically had to use electrically conducting metals. That approach, however,
brings with it a fundamental problem of metals—the higher the electrical
conductivity, the better the material also conducts heat. This limits their
usefulness in temperature-dependent applications.

In a new paper, electrical engineers at Duke University demonstrate the first
completely dielectric (non-metal) electromagnetic metamaterial—a surface
dimpled with cylinders like the face of a Lego brick that is designed to
absorb terahertz waves. While this specific frequency range sits between
infrared waves and microwaves, the approach should be applicable for almost
any frequency of the electromagnetic spectrum.

The results appeared online on Jan. 9 in the journal Optics Express.

"People have created these types of devices before, but previous attempts with
dielectrics have always been paired with at least some metal," said Willie
Padilla, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke University.
"We still need to optimize the technology, but the path forward to several
applications is much easier than with metal-based approaches."

Padilla and his colleagues created their metamaterial with boron-doped
silicon—a non-metal. Using computer simulations, they calculated how terahertz
waves would interact with cylinders of varying heights and widths.

The researchers then manufactured a prototype consisting of hundreds of these
optimized cylinders aligned in rows on a flat surface. Physical tests showed
that the new "metasurface" absorbed 97.5 percent of the energy produced by
waves at 1.011 terahertz.

Efficiently absorbing energy from electromagnetic waves is an important
property for many applications. For example, thermal imaging devices can
operate in the terahertz range, but because they have previously included at
least some metal, getting sharp images has been challenging.

"Heat propagates fast in metals, which is problematic for thermal imagers,"
said Xinyu Liu, a doctoral student in Padilla's laboratory and first author of
the paper. "There are tricks to isolate the metal during fabrication, but that
becomes cumbersome and costly."

Another potential application for the new technology is efficient lighting.
Incandescent light bulbs make light but also create a significant amount of
wasted heat. They must operate at high temperatures to produce light—much
higher than the melting point of most metals.

"We can produce a dielectric metasurface designed to emit light, without
producing waste heat," Padilla said. "Although we've already been able to do
this with metal-based metamaterials, you need to operate at high temperature
for the whole thing to work. Dielectric materials have melting points much
higher than metals, and we're now quickly trying to move this technology into
the infrared to demonstrate a lighting system."

This work was supported by the Department of Energy (DE-SC0014372).

CITATION: "Experimental realization of a terahertz all-dielectric metasurface
absorber," Xinyu Liu, Kebin Fan, Ilya V. Shadrivov, Willie J. Padilla. Optics
Express, 2017. DOI: 10.1364/OE.25.000191

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

