

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sound Waves Replace Human Hands in Petri Dish Experiments

September 10, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Three proof-of-concept prototypes seek to make contactless ‘acoustic tweezer’
technology available to a wide array of laboratories

Mechanical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a set of prototypes
for manipulating particles and cells in a Petri dish using sound waves. The
devices, known in the scientific community as “acoustic tweezers,” are the
first foray into making these types of tools, which have thus far been
relegated to laboratories with specific equipment and expertise, available for
use in a wide array of settings.

The paper describing the technology appears online on September 9 in the
journal Science Advances.

Acoustic tweezers are a powerful, versatile set of tools that use sound waves
to manipulate bioparticles ranging from nanometer-sized extracellular vesicles
to millimeter-sized multicellular organisms. Over the past several decades,
the capabilities of acoustic tweezers have expanded from simplistic particle
trapping to the precise rotation and translation of cells and organisms in
three dimensions.

“Recent advances have led to many advanced, versatile tools,” said Tony Jun
Huang, the William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science, who has been working in the field for more than a decade.
“However, at the end of the day, the success of this field depends on whether
end users such as biologists, chemists or clinicians are willing to adopt this
technology or not. This paper demonstrates a step toward a much friendlier
workflow to make it easier for end users to adopt this technology.”

In their first application, acoustic tweezers used sound waves generated from
opposite sides of a microfluidic chip or chamber to create nodes where cells
or microparticles are trapped. Moving the wavefronts of the sound waves across
the opposing surfaces of the chamber controlled a particle’s position in two
dimensions, while adjusting the sound waves’ amplitudes could push or pull
them in the third.

More advanced setups have since been demonstrated, where sound waves
reverberate throughout a fluidic chamber. For example, depending on the
application, patterns can be created and changed to separate and manipulate
multiple particles at once, or whirlpools can be formed to concentrate a group
of particles.

But no matter how advanced their abilities, acoustic tweezers have thus been
relegated to prototype demonstrations and laboratories with specialized
equipment; very few biologists have adopted this technology yet.

“Our goal is to bridge the gap between acoustic innovations and the
biological/clinical benchtop,” said Huang.

In the paper, Huang and his colleagues demonstrate three prototype setups that
use transducers to create sound waves that manipulate particles in the most
common cell culture plate found in biomedical laboratories—the Petri dish.

In the first design, a set of four transducers, one on each side of the Petri
dish, create sound waves that interact with one another to create a standing
pattern within the dish’s liquid sample. The setup could be used for multi-
configuration cell patterning, cell-cell interaction studies and the
construction of 3D tissues.

The second design uses a tilted transducer sending an angled sound wave from
beneath the Petri dish to create a whirlpool that concentrates the dish’s
contents in the center. This ability would allow researchers to concentrate
bioparticles for signal enhancement and the construction of large cell
spheroids.

In the final setup, holographic interdigital transducers—two transducers
fitted together like a zipper—create high-frequency beam-like waves from below
the Petri dish to control particles in specific locations. By switching
between different designs, the setup can stimulate cells as well as
concentrate and trap bioparticles.

Together, the setups demonstrate easy-to-use acoustic tweezers that can gently
manipulate a wide variety of cells and particles without touching or labeling
them. Potential applications include patterning and printing cells, separating
and sorting cells, controlling cell-cell interactions, constructing tissues
and rotating multicellular organisms.

“The purpose of this study was to duplicate some of the previous functions of
our acoustic tweezers in Petri dishes,” said Huang, who has also cofounded a
company to pursue commercialization of the technology. “Our next goal is to
build a single prototype that realizes all of the abilities of these three
setups, if not more.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01GM132603,
R01GM135486, UG3TR002978, R33CA223908, R01GM127714, R01HD086325), the United
States Army Medical Research Acquisition Activity (W81XWH-18-1-0242), and the
National Science Foundation (ECCS-1807601).

“Generating Multifunctional Acoustic Tweezers in Petri Dishes for Contactless,
Precise Manipulation of Bioparticles.” Zhenhua Tian, Zeyu Wang, Peiran Zhang,
Ty Downing Naquin, John Mai, Yuqi Wu, Shujie Yang, Yuyang Gu, Hunter Bachman,
Yaosi Liang, Zhiming Yu, Tony Jun Huang. Science Advances, 2020. DOI:
10.1126/sciadv.abb0494

# # #

## Related News

July 03, 2018

### Sound Waves Could Provide 'Liquid Biopsies'

September 18, 2017

### Sound Waves Separate Biological Nanoparticles for 'Liquid Biopsies'

January 26, 2017

### Sound Waves Create Whirlpools to Round Up Tiny Signs of Disease

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

