

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Dowell Receives Highest Individual Honor for Achievement in Aeronautics

June 16, 2016

Dowell was recognized for his pioneering contributions to aeroelasticity,
structural dynamics, and unsteady aerodynamics

Earl Dowell, the William Holland Hall Professor of Mechanical Engineering at
Duke University, has been named this year’s recipient of the American
Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) Reed Aeronautics Award. The
award is the highest honor an individual can receive for notable achievement
in aeronautics.

Dowell was recognized for his “pioneering contributions to aeroelasticity,
structural dynamics, and unsteady aerodynamics which have had a tremendous
influence on aerospace technology.” Along with a certificate and a medal, he
was recognized in Washington, DC on Wednesday, June 15, 2016, at the AIAA’s
annual Aerospace Spotlight Awards Gala held in conjunction with the AIAA
Aviation and Aeronautics Forum and Exposition. The event included the video
embedded below.

“Each of this year’s Spotlight Gala Award recipients has distinguished
themselves by improving the state-of-the-art in aerospace science and
technology. Their work is a testament to the devotion and dedication that each
has to their craft,” said AIAA President Jim Albaugh in a statement issued by
the AIAA. “Each is worthy of these honors, that are some of the most important
awards our community annually gives. AIAA congratulates each of the recipients
and looks forward to seeing how they will continue to shape the future of
aerospace.”

The AIAA is the world’s largest technical society dedicated to the global
aerospace profession. The Reed Aeronautics Award is named after Dr. Sylvanus
A. Reed, aeronautical engineer, designer, and founding member of the Institute
of Aeronautical Sciences in 1932.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

