

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sound Waves Transport Droplets for Rewritable Lab-on-a-Chip Devices

June 11, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Vibrating transducers create tunnels in a thin layer of oil to transport
droplets across a chip without leaving a trace behind

DURHAM, N.C. – Engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a versatile
microfluidic lab-on-a-chip that uses sound waves to create tunnels in oil to
touchlessly manipulate and transport droplets. The technology could form the
basis of a small-scale, programmable, rewritable biomedical chip that is
completely reusable to enable on-site diagnostics or laboratory research.

The results appear online on June 10 in the journal Science Advances.

“Our new system achieves rewritable routing, sorting and gating of droplets
with minimal external control, which are essential functions for the digital
logic control of droplets,” said Tony Jun Huang, the William Bevan
Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at
Duke. “And we achieve it with less energy and a simpler setup that can control
more droplets simultaneously than previous systems.”

Automated fluid handling has driven the development of many scientific fields
such as clinical diagnostics and large-scale compound screening. While
ubiquitous in the modern biomedical research and pharmaceutical industries,
these systems are bulky, expensive and do not handle small volumes of liquids
well.

Lab-on-a-chip systems have been able to fill this space to some extent, but
most are hindered by one major drawback—surface absorption. Because these
devices rely on solid surfaces, the samples being transported inevitably leave
traces of themselves behind that can lead to contamination.

The new lab-on-a-chip platform uses a thin layer of inert, immiscible oil to
stop droplets from leaving behind any trace of themselves. Just below the oil,
a grid of piezoelectric transducers vibrate when electricity is passed through
them. Just like the surface of a subwoofer, these vibrations create sound
waves in the thin layer of oil above them.

These sound waves form complex patterns when they bounce off the top and
bottom of the chip as well as when they run into one another. By meticulously
planning the design of the transducers and controlling the frequency and
strength of the vibrations causing the waves, the researchers are able to
create vortices that, when combined, form tunnels that can push and pull
droplets in any direction along the surface of the device.

“The new system uses dual-mode transducers, which can transport droplets along
x or y axis based on two different streaming patterns,” said Huang. “This is a
big step up from our previous system, which simply created a series of dimples
in the oil to pass droplets along on a single axis.”

Aiding Huang in the creation of this upgraded system was Krishnendu
Chakrabarty, the John Cocke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering at Duke, and his PhD student Zhanwei Zhong. The pair helped design
the electronics at the heart of the new lab-on-a-chip demonstration, and
greatly upgraded and miniaturized the wire connections, controllers and other
hardware used in the system.

By using dual-mode transducers, the researchers were able to move droplets
along two axes while simultaneously reducing the complexity of the electronics
four-fold. They were also able to reduce the operating voltage of the
transducers three-to-seven times lower than previous system, which allowed it
to simultaneously control eight droplets. And by introducing a microcontroller
to the setup, the researchers were able to program and automate much of the
droplet movement.

The researchers show off the capabilities of their new device in a series of
videos. In one, a droplet is quickly whisked around the exterior of a square.
Others show droplets coming to a “T” intersection and turning right or left,
and the creation of a “logic gate” that can either interrupt a droplet’s
movement along a corridor or allow it to pass through.

The ability to control droplets in a manner similar to the logic systems found
on a computer chip is essential to a wide variety of clinical and research
procedures.

“Our next step is to combine the miniaturized radio-frequency power-supply and
control board designed by Professor Chakrabarty’s team for large-scale
integration and dynamic planning,” said Huang. “We’re also planning to
integrate the ability to split droplets into two without having to touch
them.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01GM132603,
UG3TR002978, R01HD086325, R33CA223908, R01GM127714), the United States Army
Medical Research Acquisition Activity (W81XWH-18-1-0242), and the National
Science Foundation (ECCS-1807601).

CITATION: “Acoustic Streaming Vortices Enable Contactless, Digital Control of
Droplets.” Peiran Zhang, Chuyi Chen, Xingyu Su, John Mai, Yuyang Gu, Zhenhua
Tian, Haodong Zhu, Zhanwei Zhong, Hai Fu, Shujie Yang, Krishnendu Chakrabarty,
and Tony Jun Huang. Science Advances, 2020. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aba0606

# # #

## Related News

July 26, 2018

### Soundwave-Surfing Droplets Leave No Traces Behind

September 18, 2017

### Sound Waves Separate Biological Nanoparticles for 'Liquid Biopsies'

January 26, 2017

### Sound Waves Create Whirlpools to Round Up Tiny Signs of Disease

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

