

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Dual Contrast Agent to Light Up Arterial Health Risks

July 11, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

A Duke MD-PhD student is developing a contrast agent that both locates
arterial plaque buildup and indicates the chances of it rupturing

Two degrees plus two scan energies and one heavy metal equals a new way to
detect dangerous plaques in the coronary arteries.

Potentially.

Jeffrey Ashton, a biomedical engineering graduate student in Duke University’s
MD-PhD program, has won an American Heart Association Fellowship to develop a
new contrast agent for CT scans. Not only would the agent be able to detect
plaque buildup in arteries, but also reveal how likely the plaque is to
rupture and cause a heart attack or stroke.

The prestigious fellowship, which comes with a two-year, $50,000 grant, is
intended to help young researchers launch independent careers in
cardiovascular and stroke research by obtaining significant scientific results
under the supervision of a mentor.

Or in this case, two mentors. The research is made possible through a
collaboration between Jennifer West, the Fitzpatrick Family University
Professor of Engineering at Duke University, and Cristian Badea, a professor
of radiology at Duke Medicine.

“CT scans are very effective for seeing where there’s a pathology and how big
it is,” said Ashton. “But that information can’t accurately predict which
plaques pose an imminent risk to the patient.”

A better predictor is the proteases secreted by advanced plaques. Previous
research has shown that plaques nearing their tipping point pump out more of
these specialized enzymes than typical tissue.

To find plaques and determine their chances of rupturing, the project will use
a relatively new technology called dual-energy CT scanning. Aptly named, the
technique conducts two scans simultaneously with x-rays of differing energies.
This allows doctors to see multiple materials at the same time.

“If we see an atherosclerotic plaque with a normal CT scan, we could do a dual
energy CT scan using this new contrast agent to determine the risk,” said
Ashton.

The first material the dual energies will light up is iodine, a contrast agent
commonly used in CT scans. The second is gold nanoparticles. But the two won’t
be jumping into the pool alone; they’ll be joined at the hip.

Ashton plans to connect the two elements using peptides that are easily broken
by the proteases secreted by advanced plaques. As the iodine builds up in the
plaque, the attached gold nanoparticles will either stay put or break free.
The former indicates the plaque is in no danger of rupturing; the latter
indicates a need for intervention.

“Working with Cristian has been great because, while we have done a lot of
work in contrast agents in the past, we have no expertise in CT scanning
technology, and he is one of the world’s leading experts in multi-modal CT
imaging,” said West. “By coming together, we’ve been able to translate some of
the approaches we’ve used in the past from an optical imaging platform onto a
CT platform, which enables many more types of clinical applications.”

For his part, Ashton couldn’t be happier with the situation.

“Even before I started my PhD, I knew I was interested in contrast agents, but
I didn’t think anyone at Duke was working with them,” said Ashton. “But
rotating through Professor West’s and Professor Badea’s labs, I found that
both were interested in the intersection between CT imaging and nanoparticle
contrast agent development. It’s been great. I was lucky to find two labs with
a need that I could fill, which also happened to be exactly what I was
interested in.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

