

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Smart Home Gears Up for Year of Innovative Energy Storage Projects

June 22, 2016

The Duke Smart Home Program is looking forward to a year focused on developing
and carrying out a variety of energy storage projects.

_Originally written for theDuke Chronicle by Rachel Sereix_

The Duke Smart Home Program is looking forward to a year focused on developing
and carrying out a variety of energy storage projects.

The organization—which includes the Home Depot Smart Home, a live-in research
laboratory operated by the Pratt School of Engineering—strives to utilize
methods of energy storage and solar energy production in a collaborative
setting. This year, the Smart Home is working to create an electric bike and a
solar bench, explained junior Harvey Shi, vice president of the Smart Home.

"I think it is kind of good that our projects are all revolving around the
same theme because we can really concentrate on it and spend our time learning
about it," said senior Lauren Shum, president of the Smart Home. "It also
means that people who are working on one project will have a lot of useful
information to share with people working on other projects."

Shi explained that the Smart Home is planning to build a solar bench that
could benefit the Duke community.

"The design behind the bench project would be to incorporate a large solar
panel into the existing roof structure of a bench, reinforcing it if
necessary," Shi said. "We would then add a weatherproof housing under the desk
which contains batteries for nighttime use."

In addition to these components, rainproof LED lighting panels will be added
to the underside of the roof and USB chargers for mobile phones and tablets
will be included, Shi said. He noted, however, that it will not be able to
charge a laptop because this function would require an inverter, increasing
both the cost of production and the complexity of the project.

The students are also currently working to improve an electric bike created by
members of the Smart Home several years ago, Shi said.

Due to limited technology at the time, the original creators used a heavy
mountain bike frame, a motor mounted to the front wheel and heavy battery in
the back, he said. However, the new bike has a motor mounted to its bottom
bracket where the front gears are attached to the bike, which allows for
better weight distribution. Additionally, the frame is composed of a lighter,
hybrid material, and the new battery is attached to the middle region in order
to aid with balance.

"The bike can be used completely with electric power, or can be switched over
to pedal assist mode, where it provides just enough power output in
conjunction with someone pedaling to deliver an even amount of power to the
wheels," Shi said.

Shum explained that the Smart Home acts in a residential and academic capacity
in addition to being a student organization and club. Although only ten
students can live in the Smart Home at a time, many others are involved in
developing and creating projects related to technology or sustainable living.

Jim Gaston, assistant dean of undergraduate research at the Pratt School of
Engineering and director of the Duke Smart Home Program, wrote in an email
that the Smart Home has always catalyzed teamwork with projects that focus on
new technologies and sustainable living.

He explained that the building currently only produces about 10 percent of the
power needed to operate it but that students are currently researching ways
that the Smart Home could become "net zero" and produce all the power needed
to operate itself.

The Smart Home's innovative use of energy and electricity also extends to the
environment in which they live.

"We built this app that lets you control all the lights in the house from your
phone," Shi said. "All the lighting in the Smart Home is connected to a
unified grid and so we put a server down in the basement that taps into this
network. Now we can use our phones to control the lights wherever we want."

Students also utilize a community garden next to the Smart Home, where they
can grow their own food to help improve composting efforts on campus, Gatson
explained. He noted that the garden has taken the "living learning laboratory"
principles that the Smart Home has continuously fostered outside of the
physical building and into the community.

Shum noted that while many students are invested in working on projects that
involve energy storage, some students are passionate about different issues
and continue to research their topics independently. She explained that one
student has been particularly passionate about farming and gardening and is
trying to understand firsthand the implications of bee decline.

In the Fall, Shum is seeking to pursue a Smart Home Fellows project to develop
a solar pasteurizer, which would heat consumables—without electrical input—in
order to kill germs.

"We need to build an experimental prototype first as a proof of concept, but
theoretically, the heat treatment should be able to achieve the most intensive
form of pasteurization for milk," she said. "The most significant challenge I
anticipate encountering is distributing the extremely focused heat such that
we can heat up a relatively large volume of liquid."

Gatson explained that the Smart Home fosters innovation in a collaborative
setting to help improve Duke's campus.

"The Duke Smart Home was the first LEED Platinum building on campus and
remains an outstanding example of what Duke students can do when they combine
unique ideas with hard work and determination," he wrote.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

