

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Researchers Garner Over $6 Million in NIH Funding to Fight Genetic
Diseases

January 2, 2020

Collaborative work using CRISPR genome editing to address the burden of
genetic neuromuscular diseases flourishes across Duke

Hemophilia. Cystic fibrosis. Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Huntington’s
disease. These are just a few of the thousands of disorders caused by
mutations in the body’s DNA. Treating the root causes of these debilitating
diseases has become possible only recently, thanks to the development of
genome editing tools such as CRISPR, which can change DNA sequences in cells
and tissues to correct fundamental errors at the source—but significant
hurdles must be overcome before genome-editing treatments are ready for use in
humans.

Enter the National Institutes of Health Common Fund’s Somatic Cell Genome
Editing (SCGE) program, established in 2018 to help researchers develop and
assess accurate, safe and effective genome editing therapies for use in the
cells and tissues of the body (aka somatic cells) that are affected by each of
these diseases.

Today—with three ongoing grants totaling more than $6 million in research
funding—Duke University is tied with Yale University, UC Berkeley and UC Davis
for the most projects supported by the NIH SCGE Program.

In the 2019 SCGE awards cycle, Charles Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, and collaborators across Duke and North
Carolina State University received two grants: the first will allow them to
study how CRISPR genome editing affects engineered human muscle tissues, while
the second project will develop new CRISPR tools to turn genes on and off
rather than permanently alter the targeted DNA sequence. This work builds on a
2018 SCGE grant, led by Aravind Asokan, professor and director of gene therapy
in the Department of Surgery, which focuses on using adeno-associated viruses
to deliver gene editing tools to neuromuscular tissue.

“There is an amazing team of engineers, scientists and clinicians at Duke and
the broader Research Triangle coalescing around the challenges of studying and
manipulating the human genome to treat disease­­––from delivery to modeling to
building new tools,” said Gersbach, who with his colleagues recently launched
the Duke Center for Advanced Genomic Technologies (CAGT), a collaboration of
the Pratt School of Engineering, Trinity College of Arts and Sciences, and
School of Medicine. “We’re very excited to be at the center of those efforts
and greatly appreciate the support of the NIH SCGE Program to realize this
vision.”

For their first grant, Gersbach will collaborate with fellow Duke biomedical
engineering faculty Nenad Bursac and George Truskey to monitor how genome
editing affects engineered human muscle tissue. Through their new project, the
team will use human pluripotent stem cells to make human muscle tissues in the
lab, specifically skeletal and cardiac muscle, which are often affected by
genetic diseases. These systems will then serve as a more accurate model for
monitoring the health of human tissues, on-target and off-target genome
modifications, tissue regeneration, and possible immune responses during
CRISPR-mediated genome editing.

“Currently, most genetic testing occurs using animal models, but those don’t
always accurately replicate the human response to therapy,” says Truskey, the
Goodson Professor of Biomedical Engineering.

Bursac adds, “We have a long history of engineering human cardiac and skeletal
muscle tissues with the right cell types and physiology to model the response
to gene editing systems like CRISPR. With these platforms, we hope to help
predict how muscle will respond in a human trial.”

Gersbach will work with Tim Reddy, a Duke associate professor of biostatistics
and bioinformatics, and Rodolphe Barrangou, the Todd R. Klaenhammer
Distinguished Professor in Probiotics Research at North Carolina State
University, on the second grant. According to Gersbach, this has the potential
to extend the impact of genome editing technologies to a greater diversity of
diseases, as many common diseases, such as neurodegenerative and autoimmune
conditions, result from too much or too little of certain genes rather than a
single genetic mutation. This work builds on previous collaborations between
Gersbach, Barrangou and Reddy developing both new CRISPR systems for gene
regulation and to regulate the epigenome rather than permanently delete DNA
sequences.

Aravind Asokan leads Duke’s initial SCGE grant, which explores the evolution
of next generation of adeno-associated viruses (AAVs), which have emerged as a
safe and effective system to deliver gene therapies to targeted cells,
especially those involved in neuromuscular diseases like spinal muscular
atrophy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy and other myopathies. However, delivery
of genome editing tools to the stem cells of neuromuscular tissue is
particularly challenging. This collaboration between Asokan and Gersbach
builds on their previous work in using AAV and CRISPR to treat animal models
of DMD.

“We aim to correct mutations not just in the mature muscle cells, but also in
the muscle stem cells that regenerate skeletal muscle tissue,” explains
Asokan. “This approach is critical to ensuring long-term stability of genome
editing in muscle and ultimately we hope to establish a paradigm where our
cross-cutting viral evolution approach can enable efficient editing in
multiple organ systems.”

Click through to learn more about the Duke Center for Advanced Genomic
Technologies.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

