

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke ECE Postdoc Wins Beckman Fellowship

May 18, 2022

Rachel Bangle will study the potential for nanoplasmonic metamaterials to
enable solar energy storage

The Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation has announced its 2022 class of Arnold
O. Beckman Postdoctoral Fellows in chemical sciences. Among the 14 new fellows
is Rachel Bangle, a postdoctoral fellow in the lab of Maiken Mikkelsen, an
associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
at Duke.

Fellows conduct research in the chemical sciences or chemical instrumentation
and are selected after a three-part review led by a panel of scientific
experts.The fellowships provide salary and research support to postdoctoral
scholars with the highest potential for success in an independent academic
career in the chemical sciences. This is meant to assist in moving from
mentored yet independent research to tenure-track positions, according to the
Beckman Foundation.

Bangle studies metamaterials, a class of synthetic materials whose many
individual engineered featuresproduce properties not found in nature. As an
Arnold O. Beckman Postdoctoral Fellow, Bangle will investigate how
nanoplasmonic metamaterials could be used in photocatalytic water oxidation, a
reaction used to store solar energy as a liquid fuel and to be accessed when
the sun is not shining.

“Nanoplasmonic metamaterials paired with lanthanide-doped nanoparticles have
the potential to selectively convert low-energy near infrared light to high-
energy ultraviolet light, which would make it possible to use a much more
significant portion of solar light for this reaction,” explained
Bangle.“Success in this research would allow more expanded use of solar
energy, especially for applications that are difficult to electrify.”

Bangle’s research will begin in July 2022 and is projected to extend to May
2024.

More News from Duke ECE

## Related News

October 15, 2019

### Mikkelsen Wins Moore Inventor Fellowship to Pursue Hyperspectral Cameras

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

