

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke ECE Welcomes 6 Summer Interns from IIT

August 2, 2016

To date, the program has brought 22 students from Indian Institute of
Technology campuses to Duke

This summer, Duke’s Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE)
welcomed six students from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)
educational system as part of an ongoing collaboration.

First started in 2012 as a result of discussions between IIT-Gandhinagar (IIT-
GN) Director Sudhir Jain and Duke ECE Professor Kishor Trivedi, the program
brings students to the Pratt School of Engineering to spend the summer gaining
research experience as interns to ECE faculty.

The prospective interns submit applications at their home institutes, and,
when possible, Professors Trivedi and Krishnendu Chakrabarty meet with
students’ advisors and interview students to determine their interests and
fits with faculty in Duke’s ECE department. The experience is much like a
Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program, where the students are
on campus for nine weeks while earning a typical REU stipend and being
provided with travel support and housing.

To date, the program has brought 22 students from various IIT campuses.
Although Duke has a special relationship with IIT-GN, the program has drawn
from other IIT campuses as well, including IIT-Kanpur and IIT-Kharagpur. A
number of the interns have applied for graduate study at Duke, including two
current students working toward their graduate degrees at Duke.

This year’s interns come from three IIT campuses and are working with six
different ECE professors. They are working on a variety of projects, from
datacenter design and deployment, to printing nanomaterials into thin films,
and even collaborating with engineers at North Carolina State University. The
IIT interns, along with other summer REU students, presented the results of
their research projects from the summer at a poster session held on July 22,
2016.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

