

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Launches New Master of Engineering in Financial Technology

September 12, 2019

FinTech master's students will build expertise in developing innovative
technological solutions for everyday financial transactions

At the heart of every seamless financial transaction is financial technology,
or “FinTech.” It’s the savvy code that lets you pay for your coffee with a
wave of your smartwatch, and the machine-learning algorithm that lets you
trade stocks from your phone. It’s the app that lets you pay your share of the
rent while keeping your bank account number secret. From bitcoin to
blockchain, FinTech is changing the way we think about financial services.

Now, Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering and the Duke Financial
Economics Center (DFE) have partnered to launch a new Master of Engineering in
FinTech, one that will fuel innovation in the finance industry by teaching in-
demand computing and programming skills along with industry-specific business
fundamentals. Among the first programs of its kind based in an engineering
school, Duke’s FinTech degree is designed to prepare graduates to meet growing
need for technical expertise in the traditional and emerging finance sectors.

“Organizations occupying the drastically changing financial services arena are
thirsty for employees who understand the practical application of both
business and technology,” said Jimmie Lenz, the new program’s academic
director, noting that an estimated 25 percent of Goldman Sachs’ current
employees are computer engineers. “And,” he added, “it’s not just traditional
banking organizations that are interested in diversifying their workforce. Ten
percent of startups on last year’s AngelList were FinTech.”

> "Technology, law and business professionals have designed our curriculum to
> serve the needs of both students and finance industry partners, showing that
> Duke remains at the forefront when it comes to developing solutions for the
> real world.”
>
> —Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke University

“Finance has always been math- and technology-friendly, but today’s
combination of smartphones, artificial intelligence-based algorithms, and the
emergence of blockchain-based technologies will fundamentally change the
financial services landscape in the future,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, the Vinik
Dean of Engineering at Duke University. “This future will be built by
technologically savvy professionals with the kind of knowledge base students
can gain in our new FinTech master’s program. Technology, law and business
professionals have designed our curriculum to serve the needs of both students
and finance industry partners, showing that Duke remains at the forefront when
it comes to developing solutions for the real world.”

DFE teaching director and Department of Economics faculty member Emma Rasiel,
a member of the Duke FinTech steering committee, pointed out that the majority
of financial technology programs in the US are run by business schools, while
Duke FinTech emphasizes developing solutions using tools such as blockchain,
machine learning and secure software development. “Our grads will understand
business needs, but they will also understand the range of technologies
available, and how to deploy them to address the evolving financial
transaction landscape,” she said.

Nate Rodland, founding COO of commission-free investment and stock-trading app
Robinhood, agreed. “In making the Pratt School of Engineering home to its new
graduate degree in financial technology, Duke has shown that it understands
the skills that employers are looking for from students. Utilizing professors
with deep industry experience, as well as impeccable academic credentials,
sets this program apart,” said Rodland.

Rasiel stressed that the FinTech program is clearly distinct from degrees
focused on what is known as “financial engineering.”

“Financial engineering is about creating complex financial products for
investors to manage return and risk,” she said. “FinTech is different. It’s
about facilitating everyday financial transactions at all levels—for
individuals, corporations, government organizations—and making them more
efficient, more secure and more convenient through technology.”

The FinTech curriculum consists of courses in programming and software
engineering, financial institution products and services, business
fundamentals, risk and asset management, and management of high-tech
companies, in addition to internship and capstone project components.

> “Graduates of this program will be in great demand from financial firms,
> tech companies and the new breed of startups that straddle both fields.”
>
> **Warren Rabin, MBA ‘01**  
>  JP MORGAN MANAGING DIRECTOR

Rasiel and Lenz said they expect Duke FinTech’s first class to be composed of
students with a mix of backgrounds—some with knowledge in computer science or
computer engineering but little experience in finance, and some with
experience in finance or business who have had little or no exposure to
coding. The FinTech program will leverage that diversity to support better
outcomes, said Lenz, through blended teams that work to create prototypes for
industry sponsors and capstone projects.

“Duke’s new FinTech curriculum uniquely marries hard-core technological
expertise with broad financial acumen,” said JP Morgan managing director
Warren Rabin MBA ‘01. “Graduates of this program will be in great demand from
financial firms, tech companies and the new breed of startups that straddle
both fields.”

The program is now accepting applications for 2020.

LEARN MORE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

