

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Launches Global Women’s Health Technologies Center

October 22, 2013 | By Geelea Seaford

Increasing research, training and education in women’s diseases and retention
of women and underrepresented minorities in STEM educational disciplines

Around the world, nearly 800 women die every day due to complications during
pregnancy and childbirth—and even more from breast and cervical cancer. Duke’s
expertise in biomedical engineering and global health are merging to address
these issues and improve the lives of women by accelerating research in areas
of women’s health, while increasing the number of women and minorities who
pursue training and degrees in science, technology, engineering and math.

The Global Women’s Health Technologies Center reflects a partnership between
the Pratt School of Engineering and the Duke Global Health Institute and is
led by Nimmi Ramanujam, professor of biomedical engineering and global health.

The center’s mission is to increase research, training and education in
women’s diseases, with a focus on breast cancer, cervical cancer, and
maternal-fetal health; and to increase retention of women and underrepresented
minorities in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM)
educational disciplines locally and globally.

“With Duke’s leadership in health technology innovations and our university-
wide commitment to knowledge in service to society, we are perfectly poised to
develop practical solutions to address health challenges facing women,
especially those in low- and middle-income countries,” said Tom Katsouleas,
Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke. “I’m especially enthusiastic about the
opportunities this new center will open for Duke students—it will offer them
both the training and the inspiration they need to make a real difference in
the world.”

The center will offer courses to engage students in STEM fields by targeting
areas of a woman’s life that are subject to significant health disparities.
These courses will be linked to the research currently under way at Duke in
women’s health technologies and will emphasize the translation of research
into practice.

“I’m pleased the Duke Global Health Institute is a part of this important
initiative,” said Michael Merson, director of the Duke Global Health
Institute. “Under Dr. Ramanujam’s leadership, I know we can mobilize our
students and faculty around these issues and make Duke a leader in women’s
health technologies. I know of few such centers dedicated to this area around
the world.”

“I believe that we can attract and retain women in science and technology by
making the subject personally relevant,” said Ramanujam. “Women are powerful
advocates and researchers, and want to improve the quality of life of other
women around the world.”

Since coming to Duke in 2005, Ramanujam has established a laboratory that is
developing and applying innovative optical strategies and technologies for
cancer screening in resource-limited settings, detecting residual disease
during cancer surgery, and visualizing tumor hypoxia and metabolism in the
context of cancer therapy and drug discovery. She is currently working with
DGHI partners at the Family Health Ministries to develop a portable, low-power
spectroscopic device for screening cervical cancer in Haiti and has studies
planned in Moshi, Tanzania.

Learn more about the Duke Center for Global Women’s Health Technologies at
globalwomenshealthtechnologies.com.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

