

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# DukeREP Gives High Schoolers a Taste of Engineering

August 7, 2018

Local students gain lab experience thanks to a new summer outreach program
from Duke BME

For most high school students, summer break usually involves family vacations,
part-time jobs, and sleeping in until noon. But for four Jordan High School
students, their final summer before senior year involved learning how to
3D-print, pipette and develop software in labs at Duke University’s Department
of Biomedical Engineering (Duke BME).

These students were part of the new Duke Research in Engineering Program
(DukeREP), a seven-week summer experience for high schoolers with an interest
in science and engineering. The program matches selected students from Durham
Public Schools with BME labs at Duke, where they work on specific projects
with mentors and gain insight into what it takes to be an engineering student.
At the end of seven weeks, the DukeREP fellows present their projects to
students and faculty during the annual Research Experience for Undergraduates
(REU) poster session.

“Opportunities like this are often disproportionally accessible to well-
connected individuals, and we wanted to create a program that was especially
accessible to underrepresented groups in STEM,” says Hala El-Nahal, a PhD
student in Duke BME and co-founder and president of DukeREP.

In addition to learning practical engineering skills, students participated in
weekly social activities and seminars to learn more about college life. They
also attended courses on college advising, professional development and talks
from professors and graduate students on various topics in engineering. “We
wanted our students to leave DukeREP feeling fully prepared for the college
application process,” says El-Nahal. “Along with their final poster and
research report, students were required to submit a final draft of their
common application essay and resume at the end of the program.”

“I had a great time working in the lab during the program,” said Xavier Gomez,
who worked in Professor Jennifer West’s lab with his mentor, Rachel Katz, a
PhD student in BME. “I was able to help create a 3D vascularized tumor model,
and during that process I learned 2D and 3D culture techniques, how to
conjugate peptides to polymers and other lab skills. The experience definitely
made me excited to pursue engineering in college.”

Fellow student Amy Cheng worked in Associate Professor Marc Sommer’s lab,
helping test different types of image movement on a subject’s acuity with the
goal of using their findings to create better retinal prosthetics. “I learned
a lot about programming, and I think I’d be really interested in studying
computer sciences in college.”

For Lorenzo Shaikewitz, summer in a lab meant learning how to get better
recordings of neural activity. Working with his mentor, Kimberly Lennox, a PhD
student in Assistant Professor Yiyang Gong’s lab, Shaikewitz investigated how
to reduce artifacts, or background noise, from images of mouse neurons. “It
was really cool to see people create these advanced imaging tools with objects
that are commercially available to anyone,” he said. “I can’t pick out a
favorite experience––I enjoyed every part of the program.”

“I’d definitely recommend DukeREP to any high school students who are
interested in engineering,” said Alex Wigger, whose poster, “Prototyping ARFI
Phantom and Transducer Holder for Clinical Ultrasound Use,” won a prize during
the REU poster session. During his time in Professor Kathy Nightingale’s lab,
Wigger 3D-printed a stand for a prototype ultrasound transducer and a test-
imaging phantom device that helps to calibrate the ultrasound probes before
use.

“I had a great time working in Dr. Nightingale’s lab. Not only do I know I
want to be an engineer when I get my undergraduate degree, but this program
has also made me consider getting a master’s degree or even a PhD, so that’s
really exciting.”

To learn more about the Duke Research in Engineering Program, visit
https://sites.duke.edu/dukerep/.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

