

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke BME’s Matt Brown Wins Dream Lab Contest

August 21, 2018

Matt Brown wins more than $20,000 in new lab equipment for Duke Biomedical
Engineering

Each year new engineering students fill Duke BME’s labs ready to learn how to
use biomedical equipment and create their own medical tools. This year,
students will have even more material to work with, thanks to Matt Brown, a
senior laboratory administrator in the biomedical engineering department at
Duke University.

Brown was recently named as the winner of the Dream Lab Contest, a competition
from Newark element14 that provides more than $20,000 worth of engineering
equipment to the winning school.

During the company’s recent Dream Lab promotion, universities across the
United States were invited to describe their ‘dream lab’ and discuss how their
students could benefit from new engineering equipment. After collecting over
100 applications, Newark element14 selected Matt Brown and Duke BME as their
winner, presenting him with a bevy of new tools and a check for $20,000 for
additional materials for the lab.

“We’re very grateful to have won this competition,” says Brown. “We’re an
educational institution and we’re always looking for more equipment to enable
our students to do what they need to do, so we’re grateful to receive these
new tools.”

“We’ve been working with Matt for many years, so we were glad to see that he’d
won these materials for students at Duke,” says Dan Hill, the president of
Newark element14.

As he fills different BME labs in the Chesterfield building with the new
equipment, which includes soldering irons, monitors to track vital signs, and
even infrared sensors, Brown is excited for the incoming students to practice
their engineering skills with the new materials. In addition to the BME users,
Brown is also optimistic that students from labs in mechanical engineering and
materials science, electrical and computer engineering and civil and
environmental engineering will be able to use the tools as well.

“Biomedical engineering is where it’s at right now. It relates to everyone’s
health and longevity, and we’re teaching the people who are keeping us healthy
and making us live longer,” says Brown. “We’re extremely grateful for anything
we can use to help them learn and encourage their progress.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

