

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineers for International Development (DEID) Returns, With a New
Bridge in Bolivia

October 10, 2022 | Miranda Volborth

Duke engineering students built a pedestrian footbridge that provides a safe
path to school for local children

  

Picking his way down the side of a 55-foot deep gorge near Japo, Bolivia, last
summer, civil engineering student Ezra Melaku experienced firsthand what the
people of the community had long known—they needed a bridge.

“It’s a high-altitude region,” explained Melaku. “It’s very cold. The
conditions are very hard to live in. But kids as young as four cross the gorge
on foot, by themselves, to reach school.”

Until last summer, the gorge was impassible during the rainy season, when it
filled with water. But now, a suspended bridge nearly 350 feet long offers a
safe, reliable path in and out of the community, regardless of the weather.

The bridge was built by a team of community volunteers, local engineers and
masons, and members of Duke Engineers for International Development, or DEID.
DEID partners with Engineers in Action, a nonprofit dedicated to developing
sustainable infrastructure in underserved communities, to send Duke students
to sites across South America where wells, bridges, and improvements to
sanitation facilities greatly improve the quality of life for residents.

David Schaad, professor of the practice of civil and environmental engineering
at Duke, is DEID’s faculty advisor. Melaku was DEID’s project manager for the
Japo pedestrian bridge build, a responsibility he took on the summer after his
sophomore year.

“Because international travel ceased during the pandemic, the usual knowledge
wasn’t passed down from student to student in the normal way,” said Melaku.
“But we had a lot of support from Engineers in Action. They connected us with
an ambassador who was also a Duke alumna and was very resourceful. And we
talked with the Duke seniors who were the last to travel before the pandemic,
before they graduated.”

During the school year, the DEID team worked on the technical aspects of the
suspended bridge’s design in cooperation with engineers in the United States,
Spain, and Bolivia. Once the team was on-site, they worked with people from
the region—some of whom had walked hours to get to the site, in below-freezing
temperatures—to build the structure.

Before they returned to Duke, the students were invited to the bridge’s
inauguration.

“The way that we were welcomed by the community was very reassuring,” said
Melaku. “It was wonderful to see how the bridge was celebrated.”

### Duke DEID Members

  * Sarah Bailey
  * Saathvik Boompelli
  * Anya Dias-Hawkins
  * Olivia Fox
  * Emily Hallock
  * Francesca Lee
  * Ezra Melaku
  * Dea Muca
  * David Schaad, Professor of the Practice
  * Spencer Schutz

Get Involved

## Related News

September 30, 2019

### Good DEIDs

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

