

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Student Wins ‘Golden Visa’

January 3, 2023

Mariam Gulamhusein is recognized as one of the top 50 high school students in
the United Arab Emirates and awarded a rare prize

First-year Duke Engineering student Mariam Gulamhusein selected her clothes
very carefully on the morning of November 16: flowy rust-colored trousers and
a white blouse with heeled leather sandals. It wasn’t her normal style of
dress—she never wears heels—but it wasn’t a normal day. Not even close.

Gulamhusein had just flown home to the United Arab Emirates from Durham, North
Carolina, to accept an award from the government honoring her academic
achievements in high school. She, along with 49 other students, were ranked
highest in a pool of 13,000 in Dubai, based solely on assessment results
submitted by their schools.

The award was just created this year, so Gulamhusein was unsure of what to
expect. However, when she and her family arrived at the private offices of the
royal family for the ceremony, they were welcomed by the aides of the
Executive Council of Dubai, the country’s governing body. When the council
told the group of students that they were about to accept the personal
congratulations of Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Crown
Prince of Dubai and Chairman of the Executive Council, Gulamhusein was extra
glad she had opted to wear the nice shoes.

“The Crown Prince is quite an influential figure,” she explained. “He’s young,
he’s a poet, he’s a champion equestrian. He’s very popular.”

The prince addressed the small group of students, encouraging them to continue
to study science and math and to use their talents for the betterment of the
young country, which was celebrating its 51st birthday. The Crown Prince took
photos with the students before awarding each of the 50 a cash prize and
announcing further financial incentives for pursuing higher education. Non-
Emirati students and their families also all received “golden visas”: 10-year
visas to live in the UAE, a nation that is notoriously stringent about
granting such permissions. (Gulamhusein was born in the UK and her parents
were born in Tanzania.)

Despite the jaw-dropping surprises, Gulamhusein remained unrattled. A year
prior, she had been part of an international panel focused on the role of
women in the UAE in responding to climate change, at Dubai’s Expo 2020.
Because media events were no longer brand new to her, she was able to take the
presence of reporters and cameras in stride and focus on enjoying the
ceremony.

“It was encouraging to me that, in this award’s first year of existence, they
chose to recognize non-Emirati students alongside Emiratis,” she said. “I
really liked growing up in the UAE, and I want to return. They’re very focused
on designing the best possible future for the country, and I was happy to hear
that I might be able to play a part in it.”

More news from Duke Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

