

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Clearing the Technical Hurdles of Moving Duke Engineering Online

April 14, 2020

Pratt Information Technology has helped an entire school transition to remote
working and learning in a matter of weeks

From getting a new system set up, to fixing a bug with a new program, to
managing a data cluster with hundreds of nodes, Pratt Information Technology
(Pratt IT) is always just a phone call away from solving the technology needs
of thousands of Duke Engineering faculty, staff and students. And in the time
of coronavirus keeping most of their usual customers off campus, they still
are—even though the requests have shifted somewhat.

“Before we had to make the transition to most everyone working from home, we
already had a few faculty and students using services like Panopto and remote
desktop, so we had some experience,” said Jim Daigle, director of Pratt IT.
“But we’ve definitely never done it on this scale. So when the decision came
down to close most of campus, it was an all-hands-on-deck sort of situation.”

With the writing on the wall for a likely city-wide shutdown, the Duke Office
of Information Technology (OIT) wisely began compiling documentation to help
people make the transition. Once the order kicked in, the entire Pratt IT
office spent several busy days working the help desk to get people remote
access to their work computers, get their systems set up at home, and figure
out how to sign in and run meetings on something called Zoom.

For the past 10 years, the Master of Engineering Management Distance Program
has used a service called Panopto to record lectures in classrooms and
distribute them to their students online. With the impending coronavirus
shutdown, the Pratt IT staff also began offering faculty help in using the
platform to make the transition to remote teaching.

But there were only a few takers. For the most part, everyone has been pretty
happy with what Zoom has to offer.

“People were already expecting a campus closure, which would have made the
Panopto option disappear, so they figured why not go ahead and go to Zoom
now?” said John Vincent, A/V multimedia specialist in Pratt IT. “And Zoom is
actually a much better platform for most classes because it makes interaction
between the students and faculty easier."

Unsurprisingly, then, a lot of the calls being fielded by Pratt IT have dealt
with users getting up to speed with Zoom. Some have issues getting their video
to work correctly, while others find themselves logged in to a personal
account rather than a Duke account, which drastically limits the number of
participants and time allowed. And according to Daigle, one of the biggest
issues people have been having is figuring out how to use the breakout rooms,
which allows the formation of smaller groups within the larger Zoom meeting
that faculty can jump between to discuss material and answer questions.

“We’ve been pretty lucky so far,” said Daigle. “We haven’t had any major
hardware issues, so it’s been mostly smooth sailing.”

When there are waves in the technical waters, however, smoothing them out can
take much longer than usual. While there haven’t been any literal fires to put
out, there have been plenty of cases of people needing new drivers installed
on their computers or help with installing Duke’s Virtual Private Network
(VPN) software (which OIT ensured had the bandwidth to handle the increased
number of users).

And when that happens, social distancing becomes even more of a pain.

“Things that would take only two minutes in person can take more like 15 just
because you’re having to walk someone through it remotely,” said Sam Naim,
user services specialist in Pratt IT. “But since Zoom also has an option to
share your screen with another person, that can help speed things up a bit.”

Naim has also been the person with boots on the ground around campus for the
first few weeks of the work-from-home orders. When he isn’t setting up remote
access for a computer system, he’s turning computers back on that have
randomly shut off for one reason or another.

Pratt IT also has to keep some people on campus on a semi-regular basis to
continue maintenance on the Fitzpatrick West Data Center. With more than 2,200
square feet containing computational infrastructure for individual faculty
ranging from a couple of nodes to a couple hundred, the systems inside are
critical for computationally intensive research to continue.

For the most part, according to all involved, the transition to online classes
and meetings has been relatively painless, at least from a technical
standpoint. The Pratt IT team isn’t necessarily dealing with any more systems,
they’re just dealing with them in a different way. And with roughly 940
classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays and 1,100 on Mondays and Wednesdays, and
with countless classes and business around the world turning to the service,
there was worry that Zoom might not be able to handle the load.

But it has. At least so far. With more than 6,000 Duke Engineering class
sections moving online in one week, there’s been an extremely low failure
rate. And faculty, students and staff alike are beginning to adapt, which
brings its own set of hopes and expectations for the future.

“The response from the entire school has been amazing for what the ask was,
but the content isn’t as powerful as it could become with time to take a more
thoughtful design approach to online learning,” said LaTondra Murray, director
of online and distance education for Duke Engineering. “One of the challenges
with getting technology adopted is that nobody wants to be the guinea pig, and
right now we are all guinea pigs together. With everybody forced to give this
a try, the experience could be a push for additional faculty to offer online
sections.”

## Related News

March 30, 2020

### Data at a Distance

March 24, 2020

### Engineering Classes Move Online

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

