

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Takes Top Prizes in RoboSub Competition

August 31, 2021

Competing virtually for a second year, the Duke Robotics Club won awards for
its technical design report, propulsion system and sensor optimization

Last year, as the annual RoboSub competition pivoted from an in-person event
to a virtual showcase, the Duke Robotics Club pivoted along with it, winning
fourth place for its journal paper submission. This year, as the competition
remained virtual, the club further proved its ability to adapt, execute and
deliver results. From a field of 54 teams from 12 different countries, Duke
garnered first-place prizes in the technical design report and propulsion
system categories and a third-place award for sensor optimization.

Over the past year the club met twice a week, for two hours at a stretch, to
improve and refine its autonomous underwater vehicle, Cthulhu v2. After a
month of onboarding its newest members, team leads Trevor Fowler ME ’21 and
Kara Lindstrom ME ’23 (Mechanical), Muthu Arivoli ECE/CS ’22 and Brandon Bae
ECE/CS ’24 (Electrical), and Shaan Gondalia ECE/CS ’23 (Software) drove the
head-to-toe improvement process. This included fully redesigning the robot’s
frame, upgrading the robot’s acoustics and adding a new bank of sensors, and
fine-tuning the robot’s vision, movement and task planning capabilities with
upgraded controls.

A Zoom-based Duke Robotics Club took some getting used to, acknowledged Co-
Presidents Nick Chakraborty ECE/Physics ’23 and Eric Jiang ECE/CS ’22. “After
the in-person competition was canceled again, it was often hard to find the
motivation to continue working on the robot,” said Jiang. “It’s a testament to
the talent and commitment of each and every one of our members that we were
not only able to survive as a club, but also continue our momentum from
previous years.”  

Watch the Video:  

More News From Duke Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

