

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Mark Schreiner

Sydney Hunt and Joshua Crittenden on how the Duke experience inspired them to
become finalists for Duke Young Trustee

_Update, April 10, 2023:President Vincent Price nominated Sydney Hunt to be a
Duke Young Trustee._

Engineers do a lot. They're designers, yes. Technically skillful, surely.
Problem solvers; that’s in the job description. But as faculty, staff and
students at the Pratt School of Engineering know, authentic problem-solving
and innovation are team sports. And teams need leaders.

So, Duke educates engineers to be leaders, too.

From EGR 101 (First-Year Design) for undergraduates to master’s course EGRMGMT
540 (Management to High-Tech Industries) to the career preparation program for
engineering doctoral students PhD Plus, teamwork and leadership skills are
placed alongside physics, mathematics and design in the Duke Engineer’s
toolbox for life.

'I found my purpose at Pratt'

“I found my purpose at Duke and the Pratt School of Engineering,” said Sydney
Hunt, a senior in electrical and computer engineering, who is an undergraduate
finalist to become a Duke Young Trustee. “When I came to Pratt, all I knew was
that I loved art and math and that I wanted to help people. Now, after four
years, I see becoming a Young Trustee as a continuation of my journey.”

Similarly motivated is Joshua Crittenden, a PhD candidate in environmental
engineering, who is a graduate/professional student finalist for Young
Trustee.

### What is a Young Trustee?

  * Young Trustees are members of the university's Board of Trustees—a
    37-member body charged with ensuring the long-term health of Duke

  * Young Trustees are expected to consider, as all trustees do, the whole of
    the university. The position of Young Trustee was created to ensure the
    board includes individuals who are closer to the experience of today’s
    Duke
  * Each year, an individual from the undergraduate student body and an
    individual from the community of graduate and professional students are
    elected as Young Trustees

More about Duke's Young Trustees »

“I think there’s a need for diverse voices on the Board of Trustees, in all
dimensions of diversity, including in ways of thinking,” said Crittenden, a
native of Connecticut, whose research is focused on using fungi and bacteria
to clean a benzene-polluted Superfund site in the Hampton Roads region of
coastal Virginia. “Engineers learn very early on how to work effectively in
teams, and what is a Board of Trustees but a kind of team?”

The Board of Trustees is Duke’s governing body. Its members are responsible
for Duke’s long-term health. That work includes overseeing and strategic
direction, educational policy, finances and operations.

The Selection Process

Each year, two young trustees are selected: one from the undergraduate student
body and the other from the graduate and professional student body. This year,
the student selected for the undergraduate student position will serve a
three-year term on the board, beginning July 1. The student selected for the
graduate/professional student position will serve a two-year term on the
board, beginning July 1.

Only one engineering student has served as the undergraduate Young Trustee, in
2017. This year’s selection process is nearing its conclusion.

Finalists have been named, and receptions and meetings have been held for
students to meet the finalists in person. After surveys and feedback are
received from students and a nominating committee, President Vincent Price
will make final nominations to the Board of Trustees, who will elect the Young
Trustees.

Hunt said that she sees her undergraduate experience at Duke, including her
work as an engineering student, as having been a privilege, and that she is
motivated to give back to a campus community that has challenged and nurtured
her.

“I received the Reginaldo Howard Memorial Scholarship, which provided me with
access to all the wonderful things that make up the Duke experience,” said
Hunt, a native of the Hudson Valley Region of New York, who will start work on
her PhD in artificial intelligence and deep learning at Stanford University
after graduating. “I want to ensure that all Blue Devils have access to and
awareness of the many resources at Duke, engineering-related and not.”

She also spoke of the desire to bring the problem-solving mindset of an
engineer to the board that oversees all aspects of the university and spends
much of its time thinking about and planning the university’s future.

“Duke’s centennial is coming up,” she said. “This is a really important time
to reflect the entire Duke community [in the board room].”

Mentors and Mentorship

Hunt pointed to an array of faculty who have enriched her experience at Duke,
including dance professor Ava LaVonne Vinesett, engineering professors Shani
Daily, Rebecca Simmons and Sophia Santillan, math professors Tori Akin and
Shira Viel, and Kari Boyd-Sinkler, director of Diversity, Inclusion and
Community at Duke Engineering.

Crittenden, who expects to complete his defense within the next year or so,
credited Duke CEE’s Claudia Gunsch with providing inspirational mentorship and
guidance during his doctoral work. Duke, he said, would have never been on his
radar in his late undergraduate years if not for meeting Pratt’s founding DEIC
director, Johnna Frierson, during a National Society of Black Engineers
conference.

“Diversity efforts are effective,” he said. “I wouldn’t be at Pratt; I
wouldn’t have fallen in love with Duke without them.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

