

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineer Wins Carnegie African Diaspora Fellowship

April 2, 2020

Award will fund sanitation-based projects in Rwanda

Edgard Ngaboyamahina, a research scientist in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering’s Nanomaterials and Thin Films Lab and a member of a Duke
Center for Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Infectious Disease (WaSH-AID) team
working to “Reinvent the Toilet,” has been awarded the Carnegie African
Diaspora fellowship.

The Carnegie African Diaspora Fellowship Program (CADFP) is a scholar
fellowship program for educational projects at African higher education
institutions. The fellowship funds African-born and US- or Canada-based
scholars to develop curriculum, collaborate on research projects, and mentor
or train students at an African research university. Offered by IIE in
collaboration with the United States International University-Africa (USIU-
Africa), the program is funded by a grant from Carnegie Corporation of New
York (CCNY).

> "We seek to develop joint global health-related projects to provide
> assistance and inform policymakers on emerging issues due to rapid
> urbanization."
>
> Edgard Ngaboyamahina, ECE research scientist

A total of 395 African Diaspora Fellowships have been awarded for scholars to
travel to Africa since the program’s inception in 2013. Ngaboyamahina is the
second recipient from Duke Engineering. The first, civil and environmental
engineering associate professor Fred Boadu, was awarded the fellowship in
2014; the funds supported an outreach program in Ghana that sought to educate
citizens about the dangers of hydrocarbon water contamination stemming from
the indiscriminate disposal of used motor oil or paint on bare ground.

For Ngaboyamahina, the path to the fellowship began last year, at the Rwanda
Young Professionals Conference, where he met the deputy vice chancellor for
institutional advancement of the University of Rwanda, Amb. Dr. Murigande. “He
invited me to give a lecture on the social and economic issues pertaining to
sanitation and the role of social enterprises at the University of Rwanda,”
said Ngaboyamahina. “He also introduced me to the dean of the School of
Engineering, Dr. Umaru Garba Wali. Together, we developed a project aligned
with the University of Rwanda’s strategic plan to broaden its activities
related to water, resource and environmental management—one that leverages the
Center for WaSH-AID’s expertise in decentralized technologies.”

The Carnegie African Diaspora Fellowship will enable Ngaboyamahina to travel
to Rwanda for three weeks, during which time he will teach courses on social
and economic issues around sanitation, mentor graduate students preparing
theses, and brainstorm proposals for future collaborations related to user
adoption of new sanitation technologies and assessing the market value of
reuse water.

“With the host institution, we seek to develop joint global health-related
projects to provide assistance and inform policymakers on emerging issues due
to rapid urbanization,” said Ngaboyamahina.

The fellowship’s initial start date of June 6, 2020 will shift as COVID-19
health recommendations evolve.

More News from Duke Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

