

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Joins Peer Universities in Filing Legal Brief Opposing White House
Immigration Order

February 13, 2017

Duke on Monday joined 16 other universities in filing an amicus brief opposing
the Trump administration’s immigration order.

_This article first appeared inDuke Today._

Duke on Monday joined 16 other universities in filing an amicus brief opposing
the Trump administration’s immigration order.

Each of the 17 universities “has a global mission, and each derives
immeasurable benefit from the contributions of diverse students, faculty and
scholars from around the world,” the brief says. “Because (the universities)
seek to educate future leaders from nearly every continent, attract the
world’s best scholars, faculty and students, and work across international
borders, they rely on the ability to welcome international students, faculty
and scholars into their communities.

"The executive order at issue in this case threatens that ability, and creates
significant hardship for (the universities’) valued international students,
faculty and scholars."

A three-judge 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals panel on Thursday refused to
reinstate the administration’s immigration ban, which temporarily halts travel
from seven Muslim-majority countries, while litigation over its
constitutionality is proceeding.

Amicus briefs are legal documents filed in appellate court cases by non-
litigants with a strong interest in the subject matter. The briefs advise the
court of relevant, additional information or arguments that the court might
wish to consider.

The brief filed Monday adds that the universities "take extremely seriously
the safety and security of their campuses and of the nation,” and that if
their campuses were not safe, or the towns and cities in which they are
located were not secure, the universities “could not maintain their world-
renowned learning environments."

The universities said they believe that “safety and security concerns can be
addressed in a manner that is consistent with the values America has always
stood for, including the free flow of ideas and people across border and the
welcoming of immigrants to our universities."

The universities signed on to the brief are: Brown, Carnegie Mellon,
University of Chicago, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Duke, Emory, Harvard,
Johns Hopkins, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Northwestern, University
of Pennsylvania, Princeton, Stanford, Vanderbilt and Yale.

The brief was filed in United States District Court, Eastern District of New
York.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

