

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineer Wins Prestigious IEEE Mid-Career Award

June 4, 2020

Electrical and computer engineering faculty member Yiran Chen is recognized
for pioneering contributions to the field of cyber-physical systems

Yiran Chen, a Duke professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering (ECE), has won the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers (IEEE) Council on Electronic Design Automation’s Technical Committee
on Cyber-Physical Systems (SYSC/CEDA TCCPS) Mid-Career Award.

Chen was nominated by Duke ECE professor Vahid Tarokh, who emphasized that
Chen’s research contributions have “fundamentally changed the landscape of the
computing framework of learning-based cyber-physical systems.”

Chen was one of the first engineers to envision the promising future of
machine learning technology; his seminal 2009 paper, “Statistical memristor
modeling and case study in neuromorphic computing,” which concerned emerging
computing platforms for neural networks, was among the first works on the
topic published in Design Automation Conference proceedings.

“Since then,” said Tarokh, “Professor Chen has published a series of
remarkable results regarding the applications of memristors to building
intelligent computing systems for machine learning and neural networks,
creating the body of what was the genesis of a significant sub-area in the
field—one that continues to guide relevant research in the community.”

Additionally, Chen pioneered research in computing frameworks for machine
learning acceleration. The structured sparsity technique Chen proposed in 2016
has become an industry standard.

Chen is the director of the NSF Industry–University Cooperative Research
Center for Alternative Sustainable and Intelligent Computing and co-directs
the Duke Center for Computational Evolutionary Intelligence (CEI) alongside
ECE professor Hai Li. Earlier this year, Chen was inducted into the High-
Performance Computer Architecture Hall of Fame.

The award ceremony will be held during the CEDA International Conference on
Computer Aided Design (ICCAD) in November 2020 in San Diego.

MORE NEWS FROM DUKE ECE

## Related News

May 14, 2020

### Yiran Chen Inducted into HPCA Hall of Fame

November 30, 2017

### Yiran Chen Named a Fellow of IEEE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

