

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Biomanufacturing Technology Licensed by Spinoff Company DMC

May 31, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Technology simplifies and maximizes chemical production by decoupling
microbial growth and product formation processes

Duke has licensed technology developed in its engineering research
laboratories to a spinoff company looking to help transform carbohydrate
feedstocks into high-value products.

From biofuels to fragrances to beer, microbes are responsible for making a
wide variety of everyday products. While some are merely doing what they’ve
been doing for thousands of years, others have been engineered to be more
efficient or to produce specific high-value products. And the companies that
harness this potential are always looking for ways to make more and spend
less.

A typical microbe’s array of life processes is extremely complex, however, and
finding the best combinations of genetic and environmental factors is a tall
order.

“The number of potential combinations of biochemical reactions to engineer in
a microbe is something on the order of a septillion. That’s a one with 24
zeroes after it,” said Matt Lipscomb, CEO and co-founder of DMC. “Even with
the recent significant advances in lab automation, computing power and machine
learning algorithms, it’s impossible to experimentally explore the entire
design space.”

Other companies are developing methods to test variables as fast as possible
to find better microbial designs, hoping to hit on a winning combination. The
solution developed by Mike Lynch, co-founder of DMC, and assistant professor
of biomedical engineering and chemistry at Duke, is to greatly reduce the
complexity of the problem in part by separating the microbes’ growth phase
from their production phase.

The approach is much like that of the farmer who prunes an orchard to
encourage trees to direct their energy toward producing fruit rather than
growing branches. By culturing microbes at industrial scales as quickly as
possible and then genetically shutting down growth and extraneous metabolism,
Lipscomb and Lynch can channel all of the microbes’ energy toward product
formation. Not only is this more efficient, it reduces the complexity of a
cell’s biochemical reactions to a design space of around 50 nodes . . . rather
than 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000.

“We first optimize growth, and then when we reach the desired biomass amount,
we dynamically turn off any processes related to growth that the cell doesn’t
need so we can focus it on production,” said Lipscomb. “By decoupling
microbial growth from product formation, we are able to optimize for a single
solution at a time.”

“This allows us to direct the flow of carbon, energy and cofactors to support
the specific biochemical reactions needed to produce the chemical we want,”
added Lynch. “Rather than extracting compounds from plants or insects, we can
produce flavors and fragrances, for example, in a much more efficient, cost
effective, and sustainable way.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

