

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Rainforest XPRIZE Team Advances to Semifinals

July 7, 2022 | Miranda Volborth

An expedition to Costa Rica gave the Blue Devil Forest Divers the field
experience they needed to effectively ID and count the rainforest’s residents

The Blue Devil Forest Divers had only just returned from a two-week long
research trip to Costa Rica when they heard the good news, delivered via email
from the headquarters of the World Biodiversity Forum in Davos, Switzerland:
they had been cleared to compete in the semifinals of the $10 million
Rainforest XPRIZE competition, scheduled to take place in Singapore in 2023.

  

The city-state of Singapore, believe it or not, has at its geographical heart
two tiny old growth rainforests—the Bukit Timah Nature Reserve and the Central
Catchment Nature Reserve. Macaques, pangolins and even some critically
endangered species of bat have been spotted there. But cataloguing the true
depth and breadth of the species contained within even the most diminutive
rainforest requires creative new approaches—which is the whole point of the
Rainforest XPRIZE.

XPRIZE organizes competitions that incentivize innovation. In pursuit of huge
prize purses—and the chance to make a real, positive difference—teams from
academia and industry strive to develop the best new ways to meet some of the
world’s most pressing challenges. The aim of the Rainforest XPRIZE is to
“reveal the true potential of the standing forest, accelerating the
development of new, just, and sustainable bioeconomies,” according to the
organization’s website.

Competitions are Duke professor of electrical and computer engineering Martin
Brooke’s favorite way to teach, and they’ve found that the level of difficulty
of the XPRIZE challenges are just right—hard enough to make milestones a cause
for celebration, but not so hard that the problems seem insurmountable. This
is Brooke’s third XPRIZE competition—they are co-leading the current
competition with Duke School of the Environment professor Stuart Pimm—and the
third time that a Duke XPRIZE team has advanced to the semifinals.

The Ocean Discovery XPRIZE, which wrapped up in 2018, focused on autonomously
mapping the ocean floor, and the Duke team advanced to the final round. For
that challenge, the Duke team used a heavy-lift drone that landed on water and
deployed retrievable sonar pods to explore the underwater environment. The
team worked extensively at Duke Pond, a water reclamation site on the
university’s campus, but never in the open ocean. When it was time to compete
in the finals in Greece, the team made the difficult decision to bow out of
the competition, knowing that their system would most likely fail in
unpredictable open waters.

From that experience, Brooke knew that field testing the Forest Divers’ data
collection and identification technology in an actual rainforest was going to
be critical to success. So with support from Pratt, Bass Connections and the
Sony Corporation, the team packed its drones and headed to Costa Rica’s La
Selva Biological Reserve and Research Station.

One might expect piloting drones through the incredibly dense rainforest
canopy in search of species to ID would be a lot different than guiding them
through the pines of Duke Forest, but Allen Parayil, a rising junior studying
mechanical engineering and a two-year veteran of the team, said that wasn’t
really the case. “Even our new pilots were able to get amazing photos by
sending the drones into the canopy,” he said. More difficult than flying, the
team agreed, was parsing some of the data that the drones collected, which was
substantially richer than what they had collected back home.

Take the audio data, for example. “Every part of a wavelength collected in the
rainforest is full of noise. Bats, bugs, birds,” said Jackie Fahrenholz, a
master’s student in Forestry and Ecosystems Science and Conservation at the
Nicholas School of the Environment. “You can go to Duke Gardens and put out a
sound recorder and get a bunch of robins and cardinals, but that noise is
sporadic.”

> "When you look at a spectrogram, you can see bats at the top, at the ultra-
> high frequencies, crickets just beneath that, then frogs and birds. Then at
> the bottom are the sounds made by howler monkeys, calling out across vast
> distances."
>
> Ryan Huang, Postdoctoral Scholar, NIcholas School of the Environment

“Rainforests are very busy,” seconded postdoctoral scholar Ryan Huang, who
teaches data visualization and is equally at home with the computational and
ecological aspects of the project. “When you look at a spectrogram, you can
see bats at the top, at the ultra-high frequencies, crickets just beneath
that, then frogs and birds,” he said. “Then at the bottom are the sounds made
by howler monkeys, calling out across vast distances. It’s very cool to see
that visual representation and be able to extract different voices across the
entire range.”

Duke Engineering · Sounds of stormy La Selva

The prospect of working in the urban rainforests of Singapore gives Huang
pause, though. “I’m nervous about the amount of noise pollution we’re going to
pick up,” he said.

But Fahrenholz is worried about what they might _not_ pick up. “If we don’t
pick up the sounds of bats, or of frogs, we’ll know it’s not a complete
forest—that it’s starting to become what we call an ‘empty forest,’” she said.
“It’s missing key species, indicating problems like the presence of disease or
poor water quality.”

This is an aspect that the team will consider as they train their AI models
for the future—that the data set they build for that purpose will need to
include the condition of a species’ presence or absence.

The team also gained some valuable insight about identifying unfamiliar
species— namely, that a multi-pronged approach works best. The team achieved
some success in uploading photos of unknown plants and animals to iNaturalist,
a site where identification is crowdsourced through its users. The prepackaged
AI algorithms they used to try to identify birds by their songs, however, were
not super helpful, because most of those packages are developed with North
American species in mind. Local researchers and guides were able to step in,
though, and positively identified a large number of species based on photos,
video clips, and audio recordings.

And then, to help with the trickiest cases, there was biology student Nicolas
Rey, toting a portable DNA sequencer. “Even trained professionals sometimes
find it difficult to distinguish between two species,” explained Rey. “But
every species has a unique DNA sequence. It’s the most accurate species ID
that we can get.”

Brooke said the biggest challenge in the coming year—apart from raising the
money to send the team across the world—is the “rotating cast of characters”
that make up the Blue Devil Forest Divers. All the tech is developed in
Brooke’s Ocean Engineering and Rainforest Engineering classes, which is open
to both undergraduate and graduate students, but of course the nature of
students is to graduate and move on.

Several of the Forest Divers said that the interdisciplinary nature of the
team was their favorite thing about the project. “Because I’m on the cellular
and molecular side of biology, I haven’t been exposed much to conservation,”
said Rey. “Hanging out with people who want to make this their career has been
really fun. And we’re creating technology that helps to value our ecosystem,
which ties in to conserving it and is important work.”

“This technology holds so much promise for the future,” said Parayil. “It
sounds cliché, but I’m becoming an engineer because I want to do good in the
world. Contributing to this project meets that need… and the need to build
cool things.”

## Related News

November 19, 2020

### What Lives in the Rainforest?

May 01, 2020

### Teaching through Competition

March 07, 2018

### Duke Students Advance to Finals in $7 Million Ocean Discovery XPRIZE
Competition

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

