

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# An Eagle-Eye, Real-Time View of Neural Activity

November 23, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

New sensor provides first real-time, eagle-eye view of neural activity in
mammalian brains

Researchers have devised a way to watch the details of your neurons at work.

Every second of every day, the 100 billion neurons in your brain are capable
of firing off a burst of electricity called an action potential up to 100
times per second. For neurologists trying to study how this overwhelming
amount of activity across an entire brain translates into specific thoughts
and behaviors, the task can be…well…overwhelming.

That’s because existing techniques for monitoring neurons are too slow or have
too narrow a scope to generate a holistic view. But in a new study,
researchers at Stanford University and Duke University reveal a technique for
watching the brain’s neurons in action with a temporal resolution of about 0.2
milliseconds—a speed that is just fast enough to capture the action potentials
in mammalian brains.

The paper appeared online in Science on November 19, 2015.

“We set out to combine a protein that can quickly sense neural voltage
potentials with another protein that can amplify its signal output,” said
Yiyang Gong, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke and first
author on the paper. “The resulting increase in sensor speed matches what is
needed to read out electrical spikes in the brains of live animals.”

Then working as a postdoc in the laboratory of Mark Schnitzer, associate
professor of biological sciences and applied physics at Stanford, and an
investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Gong and his colleagues
sought out a voltage sensor fast enough to keep up with neurons. After several
trials, the group landed on one found in algae, and engineered a version that
is both sensitive to voltage activity and responds to the activity very
quickly.

The amount of light it put out, however, wasn’t bright enough to be useful in
experiments. It needed an amplifier.

To meet this engineering challenge, Gong fused the newly engineered voltage
sensor to the brightest fluorescing protein available at the time. He linked
the two close enough to interact optically without slowing the system down.

“When the voltage sensing component we engineered detects a voltage potential,
it absorbs more light,” explained Gong. “And by absorbing more of the bright
fluorescent protein’s light, the overall fluorescence of the system dims in
response to a neuron firing.”

The new sensor was delivered to the brains of mice using a virus and
incorporated into fruit flies through genetic modification. In both cases, the
researchers were able to express the protein in the neurons they chose and
observe their voltage activity. They were also able to read voltage movements
in different sub-compartments of individual neurons, which is very difficult
to do with other techniques.

“Being able to read voltage spikes directly from the brain and also see their
specific timing is very helpful in determining how brain activity drives
animal behavior,” said Gong. “Our hope is that the community will explore
those types of questions in more detail using this particular sensor. Already
I’ve received multiple emails from groups interested in trying the technique
in their own labs.”

###

“High-speed recording of neural spikes in awake mice and flies with a
fluorescent voltage sensor.” Yiyang Gong, Cheng Huang, Jin Zhong Li, Benjamin
F. Grewe, Yanping Zhang, Stephan Eismann, Mark J. Schnitzer. Science Express,
November 20, 2015. DOI: 10.1126/science.aab0810

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

