

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ECE Alum, Entrepreneur Nathan Kundtz Elected to Few-Glasson Society

September 6, 2017

Founder of fast-rising tech company Kymeta is one of three new members
inducted into alumni society

Nathan Kundtz, the founder, CEO and president of Kymeta Corporation, is one of
three alumni elected this year for induction into the Duke Graduate School's
Few-Glasson Alumni Society. Created in 2016, the society recognizes graduates
who have distinguished themselves through their career accomplishments, the
potential of their current endeavors, or their support for graduate students
and graduate education at Duke University.

While completing his Ph.D. in the lab of metamaterials pioneer David Smith,
Kundtz conducted award-winning research that provided the foundation for
Kymeta’s technology. After graduation, he joined Intellectual Ventures in
Bellevue, Washington, where he pioneered the use of metamaterials technologies
in electronic beam-forming applications. The success of this technology at
Intellectual Ventures ultimately led to the spin-out of Kymeta in August 2012.
The company has since been recognized for its development of a thinner,
flatter and lighter satellite antenna technology that could revolutionize
mobile connectivity.

Kundtz has received several honors in the past year, including the 2016 2b
AHEAD Innovators Award and recognition as a LinkedIn _Next Wave_ top 10
technology professionals under 35. The company also has received the Frost &
Sullivan New Product Innovation Award and has been listed among the Fierce
Wireless Fierce 15, the Fast Company Top 10 Most Innovative Companies in
Space, and a Rising Five by SSPI.

Kundtz will join the Few-Glasson Society with fellow inductees Sara Danius,
(Ph.D. '97 literature) and Penka Kouneva (Ph.D. '97 music).

The Few-Glasson Alumni Society is named for William Preston Few, the first
president of Duke University, and William Henry Glasson, the first dean of the
Graduate School. Candidates for the honor are nominated by members of the Duke
community, and the inductees will be recognized during The Graduate School’s
homecoming reception at the Nasher Museum of Art on September 15.

Read more on the Duke Graduate School website.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

