

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Physics That Drives Periodic Economic Downturns

March 24, 2020

The physics behind saving, investment and the time-dependent movement of
spreading over an area reveals why all good things must come to an end

A professor at Duke University says that the way spilled milk spreads across
the floor can explain why economic downturns regularly occur.

In a paper published online on March 5 in the International Journal of Energy
Research, Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Mechanical
Engineering at Duke, posits that recessions emerge as a natural feature of
physics, rooted in the time-dependent movement of spreading over an area.

“This theory sheds light on common questions such as whether or not history
repeats itself or if the economy is stable or not,” said Bejan. “These are
questions that can find answers from physics. There exist universal mechanisms
that give rise to laws governing the growth of economics. And the answer to
sustaining that growth lies in innovation.”

Bejan’s conclusion combines the ideas behind two previous papers detailing the
prevalence of S-curves in all corners of life and the direct link between
economics and fuel consumption.

In 2011, Bejan predicted that the growth of innumerable spreading phenomena
over time follows the shape of an “S curve” otherwise known as the sigmoid
function, and that this phenomena is a result of the constructal law that he
penned in 1996. For example, a bottle of milk spilled on the floor will have a
small initial footprint, followed by a rapid finger-shaped expansion across
the kitchen’s tiles, followed by a final phase of slow creep. This same
history of slow, fast, slow can be seen in chemical reactions, population
growth, the adoption of new technology and even the spreading of new ideas.

Several years later, Bejan tied together economics and physics, showing that
physics accounts for the proportionality between a nation’s gross domestic
product and its annual consumption of fuel. "Pushing requires power, and power
requires fuel, whether it is food that powers the human body or gasoline that
powers cars,” said Bejan. “And the amount of fuel consumed by a nation is
directly related to its economic growth. So really, physics and economics are
two sides of the same coin."

In his new work, Bejan replaces the concepts of power with the concepts of
economics including money, savings, time and bubbles. He shows that, given the
ability to produce excess power and lend it to others as money, the flow of
money being spent to push things around a given area looks exactly like the
flow of power being used for the same purpose.

“The ability to save and lend, for money to flow between neighbors across the
globe, is a chain reaction,” said Bejan. “Thus economic development as a whole
is a chain reaction, and the physics of that phenomenon is detailed in this
paper.”

Putting the two concepts together, Bejan shows that the “S” curve of the
economic productivity of a commodity clashes with the linear curve of
investment. At first, the S curve is below the line, and the investment is a
speculative ray of hope. After time, the S curve moves above the investment
line and generates prosperity and promise. But as the adoption or usefulness
of that commodity, idea or invention wanes, the S curve reaches its plateau
and it inevitably crosses back to the wrong side of the investment line.

This is when economic downturns strike. But while Bejan says this event is
inevitable for anything and everything that is bought and sold, it doesn’t
mean that the entire economy has to take a nosedive.

“Everything that spreads has a finite life, and if you don’t do something to
postpone that precipice, then you will fall over the cliff,” said Bejan. “But
a market that is free is capable of generating new S curves on top of new S
curves. So as long as people are being innovative and creative and bringing
large enough new S curves to the picture, the general trend of economic growth
can continue.”

“Energy theory of periodic economic growth.” Adrian Bejan, Marcelo R. Errera,
Umit Gunes. Int J Energy Res. 2020; 1– 12. DOI: 10.1002/er.5267

# # #

## Related News

February 25, 2020

### Ambassador Inducts Bejan as Knight of the French Order of Academic Palms

November 07, 2017

### Bejan Named 2018 Franklin Institute Award Laureate

February 23, 2015

### Adrian Bejan Talks Constructal Law

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

