

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Efe Aras: Secure Cyberspace

January 19, 2017

2017 NAE Duke Grand Challenge Scholar Profile

  * Major: Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Grand Challenge: Secure Cyberspace
  * GC Advisor: Professor Galen Reeves
  * Project Title: Securing the Internet of Things

****

**How did you become interested in the Grand Challenge Scholars Program?**

I wanted to do a project related to security, and I already had fulfilled the
some of the requirements, so I figured that the Grand Challenge Scholars
program would give me the final push to do a project while still challenging
me. For me, it seemed like my interests and opportunities made this program a
good fit. good fit.

**What is the highlight of your experience with the Grand Challenge
Scholars?**

My favorite part was the service component. I was a teacher in an organization
called Duke Splash, which brings in high school students who are interested in
engineering and they attend classes taught by Duke students, so I was able to
integrate that experience into the service aspect of my project. For the first
semester I taught a course about information, and the second semester I taught
everyone about applied math. It was a really fun opportunity for me, so I’d
say it was the highlight of the GCS experience.

**What is your Grand Challenge Scholars project?**

I ended up taking a course on algorithmic privacy, and Professor Ashwin
Machanavajjhala was teaching it, and I realized it was perfect for me in terms
of my own interests and how it applied to security and privacy.The project I
worked on with Professor Ashwin focused on keeping data secure and anonymous.
For example, let’s say you have a large amount of data, and that data might
not have names or identities attached to it, but if you have any prior
knowledge or expectation about what you’ll find, then the data is no longer
technically secure. I used existing literature to determine how to add numbers
and 'noise' to these data sets in a unique way, which would then make it
harder to accurately narrow down identifying markers while still ensuring that
any error in the data set isn't too large.

**How would you say your experience with the Grand Challenge program has
prepared you going forward?**

To me, what differentiates engineering from other sciences like math or
statistics is that engineering is very focused on dealing with real-life
problems. The Grand Challenge program recognizes that, and you’re encouraged
to participate in a lot of interdisciplinary programs that can offer multiple
perspectives about problem solving and engineering. My experiences have shown
me that to truly solve a problem, you need to understand both the theoretical
basis and the practical solutions.

**Would you recommend this program to students who may be interested in
applying?**

Definitely. I think this experience really showed me the importance of trial
and error. It was all about learning how to try things and figuring out how to
improve on things when they failed or didn’t go as you expected. I also think
it’s helpful for people who are pursuing advanced degrees because it’s all
great practical experience.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

