

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Introducing Engineering Concepts in a Pandemic

October 30, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Duke Engineering’s signature First-Year Design course finds ways to provide
real-world engineering experiences during a difficult semester

As faculty and staff at Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering planned to shift
most courses online for the Fall 2020 semester, there were more obvious paths
for some curricula to make the change than others. Courses steeped in
fundamental concepts, calculations, computer simulations and programming,
among others, could more easily rely on virtual lectures and zoom meetings.

Even a handful of labs could turn remote, such as electrical engineering
courses that prepared and shipped kits to students that included items like
Arduino boards, breadboards, resistors, capacitors, transformers, a suite of
sensors and even screwdrivers. Test and measurement equipment included
handheld multimeters with temperature probes and software-based oscilloscopes
and function generators.

“Duke Engineering has been uncommonly successful in teaching hands-on
classwork online,” said Nan Jokerst, the J. A. Jones Distinguished Professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering. “Shipping out lab kits and having
fantastic TAs who can focus on helping students master the tools have gone a
long way toward empowering students to create and innovate, even if they’re
learning remotely.”

Some experiences, however, cannot be replicated through conference calls and
equipment kits. At its core, engineering is a collaborative discipline in
which hands-on, in-person processes are irreplaceable to most career paths. So
when Duke decided to bring first-year and second-year students back to campus
this fall to make sure their college experiences were not derailed, the
decision to make Duke Engineering’s signature EGR 101 First-Year Design course
mostly in-person as well was a no-brainer.

It’s proving to be the right decision.

“I heard a bit about EGR 101 before starting, mostly that it was really fun
and a hands-on way to get integrated into the engineering school,” said Nick
Haddad, a first-year student. “The technical topics aren’t too deep, and it’s
mostly teaching us how certain skills are essential to prototyping and working
together as a team. It’s giving me a good sense of what engineering design is
all about.”

“EGR 101 is the only class I have that is in person, so I’m definitely always
looking forward to it,” echoed Alison Korn. “I’ve never had an engineering
class before, so I’m thankful they decided to do it in person. I can’t imagine
prototyping without having in-class experience working with wires and various
pieces of equipment.”

In the foundational EGR 101L: First-Year Design class, students work in teams
to design solutions for community clients. With a focus on tackling real-world
problems, the course introduces first-year students to engineering and design
thinking.

To keep this important class as in-person as possible, certain safety
precautions and sacrifices had to be made. The number of class sections was
nearly doubled to keep class sizes down, which required outfitting a second
learning space outside of the traditional Design POD and recruiting more
instructors. (Two sections are also taught online for students unable to be on
campus this semester.)

During the classes themselves, each team of students—three groups outside and
six-to-eight groups inside—is spaced out around a group of tables pushed
together to help them remember to stay apart, which isn’t always easy.

“Because the classroom is usually filled with the noise of other teams
collaborating and testing their prototypes, it’s often hard to hear teammates
on the other side of the table, especially since we can’t read lips while
wearing masks,” said Korn. “It’s also hard to remember we can’t huddle
together around a screen while we’re engrossed in a prototyping or
brainstorming session.”

But they’re making it work. During the first four weeks of class, the student
teams worked through a “design sprint” aimed at developing a handwashing
timer. Students learned key steps of the engineering design process, and most
teams completed a functional prototype.

After getting their feet wet in the engineering waters, the teams are now
wading deeper by taking on engineering projects from real community clients.
For example, Korn’s team is developing a device that can warn students when
decibel levels in campus workshops approach potentially ear-damaging levels.
And Haddad’s team is one of a handful working to develop a new bronchoscopy
model for medical students to practice with that is more anatomically correct
and provides realistic tactile feedback during procedures.

“Overall, I think they’ve done a great job making the class safe while still
allowing us to learn together,” said Haddad.

## Related News

December 05, 2019

### First-Year Design Showcase: Engineering Solutions for Puffins, Nurses and
More

April 09, 2019

### First Year, First Patent Pending

April 28, 2017

### Saterbak to Lead Redesign of Pratt First-Year Experience

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

