

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Electrical and Computer Engineering Graduates Win Accolades

May 16, 2018

During 2018 Commencement, Duke ECE students were recognized for outstanding
contributions

The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at Duke conferred
numerous awards and honors upon members of its graduating class during the
2018 commencement weekend, May 11-13. Award recipients were recognized for
their exceptional contributions to scholarship, service and spirit.

“The ECE department is proud to recognize the accomplishments of our graduates
through these awards,” said Professor of the Practice and Director of
Undergraduate Studies Lisa Huettel. “Among a set of outstanding peers, these
awardees stood out for their scholarship, independent research, service, and
teaching.”

> Duke Engineering recognized more than 600 undergraduate and graduate
> engineering students at a series of ceremonies and celebrations during the
> 2018 commencement weekend.

**Joseph Robert Lilien** , **Adithya Raghunathan** and **Ryan Anthony St.
Pierre** were among the Pratt graduates awarded the **Walter J. Seeley
Scholastic Award** , which is presented annually by the Engineering Student
Government to members of the graduating class who have achieved the highest
scholastic averages in all subjects, and who have shown diligence in pursuit
of an engineering education. The award was initiated to honor the spirit of
academic excellence and professional diligence demonstrated by the late Dean
Walter J. Seeley.

**Henry Pak-Hang Yuen** was awarded the **Otto Meier, Jr. Tau Beta Pi Award**
, which is presented in recognition of Dr. Meier’s leadership in establishing
the North Carolina Gamma Chapter on January 10, 1948, and his continuous
service until April 19, 1975, as chapter advisor. This award is given annually
to the graduating Tau Beta Pi member who symbolized best the distinguished
scholarship and exemplary character required for membership.

**Edwin Taylor Bodge** was awarded the **Pratt School of Engineering Student
Service Award.** Established in 1978, the Pratt School of Engineering Student
Service Award is given to graduating seniors who, by contributions of time,
effort and spirit, have significantly benefitted the community of the School
of Engineering.

**Jihane Bettahi** and **Edwin Taylor Bodge** won the **George Sherrerd III
Memorial Award in Electrical and Computer Engineering,** which is awarded
annually to the senior(s) in Electrical and Computer Engineering who, in the
opinion of the faculty, have attained the highest level of scholastic
achievement in all subjects and simultaneously rendered significant service to
the School of Engineering and the university at large. The award was
established in 1958 by the parents of George Sherrerd III, a graduate of the
Class of 1955, to recognize outstanding undergraduate scholarship.

**Michael Yurievich Kuryshev** won the **Charles Rowe Vail Memorial
Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching Award** , established in 1997 by former
students and colleagues of Charles Vail, a graduate of the class of 1937,
professor from 1939-1967, and chair of the Department of Electrical
Engineering from 1956-1964. The award recognizes the most outstanding
undergraduate teaching assistant in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering.

**James Louis Doherty** and **Aditya Srinivasan** were awarded the **Charles
Ernest Seager Memorial Award,** which recognizes the most outstanding
undergraduate research project and presentation as judged by the faculty in
Electrical and Computer Engineering, as part of the Graduation with
Departmental Distinction presentation session. The award was established in
1958 by the widow and friends of Charles Ernest Seager, a graduate of the
Class of 1955.

Five students in total were awarded Graduation with Departmental Distinction;
read more about their work here.

Duke Engineering recognized more than 600 undergraduate and graduate
engineering students at a series of ceremonies and celebrations during the
2018 commencement weekend.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

