

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Element Genomics Acquired by Global Biopharmaceutical Company

April 5, 2018

Core of the Element Genomics platform includes a suite of technologies to
improve understanding of genome structure and function

Element Genomics, a small biotech company founded by Tim Reddy, Charlie
Gersbach, Greg Crawford and Kris Wood in 2015, has been acquired by UCB, a
global pharmaceuticals company with a focus on neurology and immunology. The
total cost of the transaction, including upfront and short-term success based
milestone payments, will amount to $30 million. At the core of the Element
Genomics platform is a suite of technologies to improve understanding of
genome structure and function such as CRISPR editing technologies used for
genomic and epigenomic regulatory region analysis and modulation, underpinned
and enabled with advanced informatics capabilities, and driven by a strong
scientific team. Element Genomics’ proven technologies and expertise will
enhance UCB’s scientific research platform enabling the company to continue to
enrich its pipeline, in particular strengthening target discovery and
characterization in disease relevant systems. Speaking about the deal,
Dhavalkumar Patel, UCB’s Chief Scientific Officer explains: “Element Genomics
researchers have a stellar reputation and their scientific expertise in
genomics and epigenomics will complement UCB’s, allowing us to deepen our
understanding of disease mechanisms with the aim of developing targeted
therapies. We look forward to working with the Element Genomics team and
welcome them within UCB.” “We at Element are thrilled that UCB shared our
vision for treating disease through knowledge gained through functional
genomics and the vast and largely unexplored biology of the epigenome. We
believe that together with UCB we can much more quickly harness the power of
this approach, said John Oxaal, CEO of Element Genomics”. Alexander Moscho,
UCB’s Chief Strategy Officer said: “This acquisition is perfectly in line with
our network strategy, where we seek the best partners to augment our expertise
in key scientific areas. This in turn helps us to maintain a dynamic pipeline
of cutting-edge programs which we can grow organically or choose to partner
out to deliver the most value for patients.” Element Genomics’ team will
continue to be based in downtown Durham, North Carolina, and will work very
closely with UCB’s international research teams. Close cooperation will be
pursued with Duke University and the Element Genomics founders.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

