

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Energy Initiative Awards Seven New Seed Grants

May 2, 2017 | By Braden Welborn, The Energy Initiative

Total external awards for previous projects have tripled the seed funding
investment

Research projects that explore new possibilities for energy storage,
reliability, and sustainable development will receive funding in 2017 from the
Duke University Energy Initiative’s Energy Research Seed Fund.

Seven projects involving 14 faculty members were selected to receive a total
of $240,000 from the fund.

Seed funding provides a financial head start for new multi-disciplinary,
collaborative research teams, enabling them to produce preliminary results
that may help them obtain future external funding.

The first three rounds of funding from the Energy Research Seed Fund totaled
$700,000 and have generated nearly three times that value in follow-on awards
for Duke research to date.

“This program, even in its fledgling years, has delivered a remarkable return
on investment for Duke University,” notes Energy Initiative interim director
Brian Murray. “And faculty tell us that it is helping them to experiment with
new ideas and tap into their colleagues’ expertise across disciplines,
advancing the quality of projects significantly.”

The 2017 round of awards is co-funded by the Energy Initiative, the Trinity
College of Arts & Sciences, the Pratt School of Engineering, the Information
Initiative at Duke (iiD), and Bass Connections.

These projects will receive funding in 2017-18:

## Nanowire mesh electrodes for more efficient, powerful, and cost-effective
fuel cells

Labs led by Benjamin Wiley and Nico Hotz will replace the traditional carbon
nanoparticle-based catalyst and gas diffusion layers of a fuel cell with a
nanowire mesh electrode that is at least 10 times more conductive, produces at
least three times more electrical current per gram of platinum catalyst, and
allows for a greater flow rate of fuel (hydrogen and air) through the
electrode.

## Itaipú post-2023: Leveraging the next 50 years of sustainable development

Itaipú Binational Dam is the world’s largest dam in terms of energy
production, supplying 18% of Brazil’s electricity and 85% of Paraguay’s. When
a treaty expires in 2023, the dam’s energy pricing and distribution agreements
are once again up for negotiation. Christine Folch’s team will offer pragmatic
policy recommendations for the upcoming renegotiation of the treaty.

## Fuel from air: Storing renewable energy as methanol using ionic liquid
electrochemistry

Solar and wind generation can supply clean power, but effectively storing this
energy and delivering it to users is a colossal challenge. Carbon-neutral
liquid fuels, made from air and renewable energy, are expected to be an ideal
solution. These fuels can be easily stored and transported, and their
subsequent use results in zero total emissions. This study, led by Jeff Glass
and Weitao Yang, will pursue the electrochemical conversion of CO2 gas to
methanol fuel using ionic liquids.

## Rational design of high-performance capacitive deionization using strong,
highly porous, machinable carbon aerogels as flow-through electrodes

Capacitive deionization (CDI) is emerging as a promising water treatment
technology that can respond to the world’s growing demand for drinkable water.
In a typical CDI process, feed water flows between two electrodes. However,
this process is slow at removing salts. This project by Jie Liu and Mark
Wiesner will build a flow-through CDI system in which the feed flows directly
through electrodes, thus expanding the understanding of flow-through cell
performance and providing guidance for future research on system design and
operation to enhance salt removal while maintaining energy efficiency.

## Development of low-electron affinity buffer layers for high performance
earth-abundant solar cells

This project by David Mitzi and Aaron Franklin will develop low-electron-
affinity buffer layers, deposited principally by atomic layer deposition, to
enable new earth-abundant and environmentally-safe photovoltaic technologies
at commercially interesting performance levels.

## Disaggregating and projecting future electricity demand in China
(2015-2050): Temporal and spatial features based on a bottom-up approach

Decisions about China’s electricity sector, which accounts for a quarter of
the world’s coal consumption and about 10 percent of its CO2 emissions, will
have profound and long-lasting implications for the availability and price of
energy resources worldwide and the state of our natural environment. For China
to meet its own carbon emissions reduction goals while satisfying the energy
needs of its economic growth, the government must consider 1) the economic,
environmental and reliability implications of energy sources; and 2) key
demand-side alternatives such as end-use energy efficiency and demand side
management. Dalia Patiño-Echeverri, Ildo Luis Sauer, and Mark Borsuk will
work to understand determinants of electricity demand in order to project
different demand scenarios at high resolution. The team’s work will be focused
on China, but models and tools will be designed to allow for easy replication
in research on Brazil, Mexico and Colombia.

## Assessment of energy reliability using massive remote sensing imagery data
and machine learning

Jordan Malof and Marc Jeuland’s project will use a novel paradigm for
estimating energy reliability that leverages recent breakthroughs in machine
learning to process massive amounts of remote sensing imagery providing
insights into electricity reliability (e.g., color and nighttime light
imagery). If it proves effective, this new approach to estimating energy
reliability would be substantially cheaper and faster than existing methods.
It would also decrease reliance on local data collection and government or
private utility records. This would make the proposed approach more available,
affordable, reliable than existing methods, and would allow for investigation
of a broad set of questions related to the reliability of energy supplies.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

