

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Connections

May 5, 2016 | by Lucas Hubbard

Elizabeth Bucholz Wins Alumni Distinguished Undergraduate Teaching Award

_Originally posted inDuke Today  
_

Science isn't short on laws, but here's another to consider: When you spend
time with Libby Bucholz PhD'08, you're learning something.

We're studying ultrasounds—specifically, the mechanics of ultrasounds and how
to optimize their energy transmission. By "we" I mean Bucholz's Biomedical
Engineering (BME) 303: Modern Diagnostic Imaging Systems class that I'm
observing, one of four BME courses she teaches each year. Never an engineer, I
expected to be drowning in labyrinthine concepts today. But a half-hour in I
find myself—like the rest of the students here—trying to solve equations like
a nascent Will Hunting, nodding as she highlights the importance of using
matching layers to maximize energy transmission.

My response is standard. Bucholz—who on Monday received the Duke Alumni
Association's Alumni Distinguished Undergraduate Teaching Award
(ADUTA)—habitually transforms the complexities of biotechnology into
digestible, 75-minute stories, making tricky topics accessible even to the
layman.

"I was worried—you came to not a very exciting [class]," Bucholz says the next
day, a strange comment given her energy and presence in the lecture. But then
she describes her other lessons, which eschew the traditional chalkboard setup
for more eccentric implements.

Flashlights, wooden blocks, bicycle tires and Tic-Tacs are all mainstays of
Bucholz's teaching kit, helping to create analogies that explain concepts like
computerized topography (CT) scans, magnetic resonance (MR) signals and
piezoelectric transducers. The repertory of hands-on comparisons, which
Bucholz has built out during her five-plus years of lecturing, proves
essential in enabling students to comprehend the material.

And her toolbox is ever-expanding. Recently, she has begun having classes play
an adapted version of the word-guessing party game Taboo — "MRI Taboo," as she
describes it. The goal? Help her students understand nuanced terms (e.g.
"transducer") by relating them to other key concepts covered in class. Even
her "not exciting" class is steeped in concrete, peer-validated examples to
inform her audience of the curriculum's real-world applications.

"It's sort of my philosophy, I think. I want to create connections to the
material and make sure the students care about it," says Bucholz, who’s also
the associate director of undergraduate studies in BME. "That’s my goal, to
make them excited and interested. And, hopefully, that will help retention."

Creativity has always permeated her teaching, although committing to her
methods required some willpower. When she first shared with other faculty her
idea to explain CTs using flashlights, she received a lot of questioning
looks.

Shrugging off her embarrassment, Bucholz went through with her plan and found
it made class engaging for students and herself. Now, whenever she sees or
brainstorms a relatable demonstration, she doesn't hesitate to use it. Which
explains the bike tire she borrows from the Physics department each year,
rotating it to mimic an MR signal for her students.

"Some kids are like, 'Why are you bringing your [bicycle tire] in?'" she says.
"And then I show them, and they're like, 'Oh my gosh, that's really cool.'"

The proof is in the participation: Even though the semester is nearly over,
the 54-person lecture hall is almost at capacity. Bucholz peppers the students
for input, checking their intuition by soliciting guesses via iClickers,
asking trick questions to make sure everyone is following, and having
individuals outline their reasoning on the board in front of the class. She
knows everyone's name, unsurprisingly, but what's striking is the variety of
names in play—the input isn't springing from one or two all-star students, but
rather all over the room.

After class, she seeks a volunteer to compile a one-minute summary of core
concepts to share during the next lecture. Nearly a third of her students
respond.

"I have never been more compelled to do research beyond the scope of a class
and ask questions as I have during her classes," wrote Lauren Heckelman ’16,
one of the students who nominated Bucholz for the ADUTA. Heckelman credited
Bucholz with inspiring her to pursue teaching, adding that "if I can one day
impact a single student the way that she has influenced me, I will consider my
career a success."

The ADUTA, first awarded in 1971, is the only teaching award sponsored by the
Duke Alumni Association. This year, 93 students submitted nominations of 73
different professors. Bucholz was chosen by a student selection committee.

The nominations are touching, Bucholz says, as they’'e coming from her "really
awesome" students. Moreover, the award further validates that her style works
for all parties involved. Given the fun Bucholz is having teaching, and the
response she's eliciting from her students, the flashlights and blocks aren't
going anywhere.

"I know a lot of students—they're learning, they're engaged, they're present,
they come to class," she says. "Who cares if it's a little silly or
different?”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

