

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Biology for Medicine Inaugural Conference Held at Duke

October 22, 2019

The new conference hosted by Duke Biomedical Engineering, Nature Biomedical
Engineering and Nature Medicine created a collaborative environment to share
innovative research

When Ashutosh Chilkoti took over as chair of Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering, one of his goals was to host a specialized conference
for biomedical engineers in partnership with a high-impact research journal.

On May 19, 2019, that idea came to fruition in the form of “Engineering
Biology for Medicine”, a conference hosted by Duke BME, Nature Biomedical
Engineering and Nature Medicine. Spanning four days and held on Duke’s campus,
the event brought together more than 200 biologists and engineers — including
faculty, post-doctoral fellows and graduate students — from universities and
research institutions across the United States and from oversees.

“The Engineering Biology for Medicine conference was developed to promote
engaging discussions about how to harness human biology to devise strategies
for probing, diagnosing and combating human disease. Biomedical engineering is
highly collaborative, and we wanted to create a conference that embodied that
aspect of the field,” says Chilkoti. “We were highly pleased with the breadth
of speakers that we were able to attract, and the conference was a great
opportunity for researchers to highlight innovative research.”

“In my view, the conference was packed with high-quality talks, and there were
lots of questions from the audience and lively discussion with the speakers,”
says Michael Basson, a senior editor at Nature Medicine and one of the hosts
of the conference. “I feel that the conference provided a snapshot of the most
exciting work going on across the different areas of bioengineering and
conveyed the promise of the field for improving health.”

Running from May 19-22, “Engineering Biology for Medicine” featured talks that
spanned immune engineering, tissue engineering, synthetic and systems biology,
genome engineering, and neuroengineering. In addition to speakers from Duke
University, presenters also included researchers from a variety of
universities across the United States, including Harvard University,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Johns Hopkins University, Georgia Tech,
Columbia University, and the University of California, San Francisco.

“This is a different crowd than I normally see at conferences. Often meetings
are somewhat siloed, so you’ll have meetings that are just on genome
engineering, or developmental biology,” says Luke Gilbert, an assistant
professor from UCSF and a conference speaker. “This meeting was delightful
because you’re bringing together different communities of engineers and
biologists. And I’ve been able to learn a lot, especially about mechanosensing
and organ-on-a-chip models. It was a nice mix of people who are in the same
field as me, but more than anything I’ve really enjoyed meeting new people and
hearing about their work.”

In addition to notable faculty from prestigious universities, the conference
featured New Innovator Mini-Sessions, where researchers who had received the
NIH New Innovator Award could discuss their work.

“It was important for us to include these sessions so we could highlight the
exciting work from these young researchers,” says Chilkoti. “The NIH New
Innovator Award is an impressive accolade, as it celebrates exceptionally
creative early career investigators as they pursue high-impact projects.”

Graduate students and post-doctoral fellows could also share their work during
the nightly poster sessions, giving students and faculty a chance to network
and check in on new research in various labs. At the end of the conference,
Gabriel Butterfield (University of Washington), Daniel Dewran Kocak (Duke) and
Imran Ozer (Duke) received the poster awards, which included a cash prize and
the opportunity to present their work in front of all attendees.

Beyond various research presentations, the conference also included a Meet the
Editors session, where attendees asked editors from _Nature Biomedical
Engineering, Nature Medicine_ and _Science Translational Medicine_ for advice
and feedback about crafting compelling research stories and the processes of
peer review and publication.

“The quality of the speakers, their talks and the interest of the audience was
evident,” says Pep Pàmies, the editor of Nature Biomedical Engineering. “Most
speakers received plenty of feedback, some over 10 questions, following their
talks. The panel discussions and poster sessions were also lively. I left Duke
with lots of notes to take home and ponder on.”

After the success of their inaugural event, Chilkoti and others within the
Duke and Nature teams hope to arrange follow-up conferences every few years
that highlight exciting areas of interest in biomedical engineering and bring
together high-profile researchers and promising younger investigators with
complementary expertise and interests.

“I think people who attended Engineering Biology for Medicine left our
conference with lots of new ideas and new connections,” says Chilkoti. “Our
goal was to create an event that would bring together some of the most
exciting minds in the field, and I think it was a resounding success.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

