

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering + Computing Showcase Lets Students Pitch Passion Projects

December 3, 2019

Spring showcase offers a new way for students to network with industry
professionals

Creativity is essential to engineering, and it will be on full display at the
Spring Engineering + Computing Showcase. In recent years, students in the
showcase have presented projects including hydrogen-powered drones, a new
method for visualization of heart tissue, and even a “pandamoji” emoticon
generator—ideas they’ve developed over a course of independent study, through
participation in a club, or during an internship in a faculty member’s lab.
Engineering and computer science students at every level, from undergraduate
to doctoral, are welcome to pitch their ideas to the industry professionals in
attendance, who represent companies including IBM, Microsoft, NetApp, SAP,
NVIDIA, Stryker and Google.

“Employers want to see a spark and energy in students when they talk about
their projects,” said Erin Carlini, the assistant director of career services
for Duke Engineering master’s programs. “What excited them about the project?
What challenges did they face in the project and what did they learn? If they
are continuing with the project, how are they making changes based on the
past? Additionally, many employers are looking at how the student communicates
about their project, as a lot of flexibility is required when you have an
audience that is both technical and non-technical.”

No matter how specialized a student’s area of study, said Carlini, there is
sure to be an employer interested in both the topic and the initiative that
students take to approach it and develop solutions or improvements—or even an
expert who can help them take their idea to the next level.

The 2017 showcase, for example, gave ECE PhD student Hassan Albalawi an
opportunity to connect with experienced advisors as he launched his startup
company, WakeCap Technologies. Albalawi designed and developed his wearable
technology to improve safety and productivity on construction sites, and
WakeCap devices are now being piloted in partnership with several large
construction firms in Dubai. Last year WakeCap announced the close of the
company’s first official funding seed round, which generated investments of
$1.6 million.

“Our hope for this year's showcase is that more students, from all levels,
will present a poster, project or prototype,” said Carlini. “We have expanded
our group of industry representatives and are looking for students who want to
grow their presentation skills while initiating professional relationships at
this event.”

Register Now

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

