

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Eric Richardson: Creating New Opportunities through Engineering Design

September 11, 2018

Duke BME's newest faculty member discusses new projects and perspectives he'll
bring to the student design experience

Among the newest faculty to join Duke University’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering, is Eric Richardson, who wants to encourage engineering design
expertise, both in the BME department and beyond. Formerly an engineer at
Medtronic, Richardson helped develop some of the first transcatheter heart
valves, now used in more than 50,000 patients across the world. He later
taught at Rice University, creating immersive design experiences for
engineering undergraduate and graduate students with a specific focus on
emerging medical markets.

Now, in his new role as an associate professor of the practice in BME,
Richardson is leveraging his background in design, industry and global health
to craft innovative design programs for biomedical engineering seniors,
graduate students and other trainees across Duke.

**What projects will you pursue in your new role at Duke?**

I’m going to continue my focus on design and innovation by fostering unique
design programs and collaborations. One of the things that attracted me to
Duke was the amazing medical center with the proximity to the top-ranked BME
program.

I’ll primarily be teaching design courses for undergraduate and graduate
students. I’ll be teaching the BME 590: Medical Device Design with Mark
Palmeri. As we move into the second year of that program, we’re working to
bring in company sponsors for their projects, as we’re hoping to expand the
industry collaboration in our capstone program.

In addition, I’m currently working with Ravi Bellamkonda, dean of the Pratt
School of Engineering, and Joe Knight from the Fuqua School of Business to
create a graduate program in design that brings together Pratt, Fuqua, the
medical school, and other groups.

**What is your design background?**

Prior to arriving at Duke I worked at Rice University, where I taught the
undergraduate capstone course for engineering seniors working on design
projects. I also developed a new graduate program called the Global Medical
Innovation Program, where we taught engineers how to design devices that were
appropriate for emerging markets, especially Latin America and Asia. I also
helped create the Texas Medical Center’s Biodesign program, where fellows from
engineering, medicine, business, design, computer science and research
programs identify unmet clinical needs and develop unique medical tools to
address them.

**What is unique about your approach to the design process?**

I’m really interested in exploring the anthropological side of medical
technology. Engineers need to not only understand the physical constraints of
the devices they create, but the cultural, regulatory and legal constraints.
In engineering, about 80 percent of the world’s devices serve about ten
percent of the world’s population, so we have this 80 percent using technology
that wasn’t created for their specific needs. Now, as we’re seeing the
emergence of medical device markets in places like Latin America, Africa and
Asia, there is a growing movement to understand how designs can better serve
those healthcare systems.

Within the context of Duke BME, I’m interested in doing research in biomedical
design, where we’ll work to better understand how engineering students can
effectively immerse themselves so they can truly see the context for the tools
they’ll create.

****

****

****

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

