

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Exercising Muscle Combats Chronic Inflammation On Its Own

January 22, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Exercising lab-grown human muscle autonomously blocks the damaging effects of
interferon gamma

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated that human muscle
has an innate ability to ward off the damaging effects of chronic inflammation
when exercised. The discovery was made possible through the use of lab-grown,
engineered human muscle, demonstrating the potential power of the first-of-
its-kind platform in such research endeavors.

The results appear online on January 22 in the journal Science Advances.

“Lots of processes are taking place throughout the human body during exercise,
and it is difficult to tease apart which systems and cells are doing what
inside an active person,” said Nenad Bursac, professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke. “Our engineered muscle platform is modular, meaning we
can mix and match various types of cells and tissue components if we want to.
But in this case, we discovered that the muscle cells were capable of taking
anti-inflammatory actions all on their own.”

Inflammation is not inherently good or bad. When the body is injured, an
initial low-level inflammation response clears away debris and helps tissue
rebuild. Other times, the immune system overreacts and creates an inflammatory
response that causes damage, like the often deadly cytokine storms brought on
by some cases of COVID-19. And then, there are diseases that lead to chronic
inflammation, such as rheumatoid arthritis and sarcopenia, which can cause
muscle to waste away and weaken its ability to contract.

Among many molecules that can cause inflammation, one pro-inflammatory
molecule in particular, interferon gamma, has been associated with various
types of muscle wasting and dysfunction. While previous research in humans and
animals has shown that exercise can help mitigate the effects of inflammation
in general, it has been difficult to distinguish what role the muscle cells
themselves might play, let alone how they interact with specific offending
molecules, such as interferon gamma.

“We know that chronic inflammatory diseases induce muscle atrophy, but we
wanted to see if the same thing would happen to our engineered human muscles
grown in a Petri dish,” said Zhaowei Chen, a postdoctoral researcher in
Bursac’s laboratory and first author of the paper. “Not only did we confirm
that interferon gamma primarily works through a specific signaling pathway, we
showed that exercising muscle cells can directly counter this pro-inflammatory
signaling independent of the presence of other cell types or tissues.”

To prove that muscle alone is capable of blocking interferon gamma’s
destructive powers, Bursac and Chen turned to an engineered muscle platform
that the laboratory has been developing for nearly a decade. They were first
to grow contracting, functional human skeletal muscle in a Petri dish, and
since then the lab has been improving its processes by, for example, adding
immune cells and reservoirs of stem cells to the recipe.

In the current study, the researchers took these fully functional, lab-grown
muscles and inundated them with relatively high levels of interferon gamma for
seven days to mimic the effects of a long-lasting chronic inflammation. As
expected, the muscle got smaller and lost much of its strength.

The researchers then applied interferon gamma again, but this time also put
the muscle through a simulated exercise regime by stimulating it with a pair
of electrodes. While they expected the procedure to induce some muscle growth,
as shown in their previous studies, they were surprised to discover that it
almost completely prevented the effects of the chronic inflammation. They then
showed that simulated exercise inhibited a specific molecular pathway in
muscle cells, and that two drugs used to treat rheumatoid arthritis,
tofacitinib and baricitinib, which block the same pathway, had the same anti-
inflammatory effect.

“When exercising, the muscle cells themselves were directly opposing the pro-
inflammatory signal induced by interferon gamma, which we did not expect to
happen,” said Bursac. “These results show just how valuable lab-grown human
muscles might be in discovering new mechanisms of disease and potential
treatments. There are notions out there that optimal levels and regimes of
exercise could fight chronic inflammation while not overstressing the cells.
Maybe with our engineered muscle, we can help find out if such notions are
true.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (UH3TR002142,
U01EB028901, R01AR070543).

CITATION: “Exercise Mimetics and JAK Inhibition Attenuate IFN-γ-induced
Wasting in Engineered Human Skeletal Muscle.” Zhaowei Chen, Binjie Li, Ren-Zhi
Zhan, Lingjun Rao, Nenad Bursac. Science Advances, Jan. 22, 2021. DOI:
10.1126/sciadv.eabd9502

## Related News

October 01, 2018

### Immune Cells Help Older Muscles Heal Like New

January 08, 2018

### Engineers Grow Functioning Human Muscle from Skin Cells

January 13, 2015

### First Contracting Human Muscle Grown in Laboratory

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

