

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Expanding the STEM Pipeline’s Flow Rate in Durham

September 14, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Students from Durham, NC, learn engineering fundamentals through two summer
outreach programs at Duke

## Duke Summer STEM Academy

Summer break for some might involve copious amounts of video gaming, lazing
around a pool and sleeping until the late afternoon. But, for these local
middle school and high school students in Duke’s Summer STEM Academy, summer
break involved learning how to think—and prototype—like engineers.

> “North Carolina’s Research Triangle has long been a national leader in
> technological innovation. Student programs like these help deliver knowledge
> and educate the next generation of engineers.”
>
> **George Delagrammatikas** | assistant chair, Thomas Lord Department of
> Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

Open to rising juniors and seniors at high schools around Durham, NC, and the
surrounding Research Triangle Region, the Summer STEM Academy is an intensive
three-week program developed by Duke’s Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering & Materials Science (Duke MEMS).

During the hands-on experience, students learn how to use engineering tools
like 3D printers, laser cutters, microcontrollers, shop tools and a variety of
computer programs to craft functioning prototypes that will address global
issues.

They also receive mentorship from Duke students and faculty as they design,
fabricate, test and present their inventions to judges.

“This program immerses students in an engineering project that challenges them
to first identify problems of social relevance and then systematically apply
design thinking to prototype different solutions,” says George
Delagrammatikas, the assistant chair and professor of the practice in Duke
MEMS. “At the end of the program, they’ll pitch their idea to a group of
judges and justify their design decisions, like entrepreneurs do in the TV
show, Shark Tank. It's an intensive three weeks where students actively apply
engineering principles while also leaning technical communication, teamwork
and critical thinking.”

Along with presentation skills, a key feature of this program is that all
students develop a digital portfolio of rhteir work which they could then use
for college or job applications in the future.

Projects for summer 2022 included:

  * **Fila-Buster** — A PLA filament shredder and composting bin that helps
    speed up the degradation process of the left-over biodegradable plastic
    generated by 3D printing
  * **ClimateSafe —** An air quality monitoring system that can detect air
    hazards like carbon monoxide, combustible gas and smoke
  * **Windbox** — A vibration sensor that can generate energy when mechanical
    strain is applied
  * **Night Night** — An air conditioner and sleep-tracking app that allows
    users to set the optimal temperature in their bed to ensure a good night’s
    sleep

But it wasn’t just high school students who got a taste of life as a Duke
Engineer­­. Middle school students also spent a week on campus developing
engineering skills thanks to the Duke Innoworks STEM Camp.

## Duke Innoworks STEM Camp

Launched at Duke in 2003 to educate local middle-school students, Innoworks
has since grown to include numerous chapters across the United States.

But at Duke, the program still maintains its local roots, where Duke
undergraduates teach Durham Public Schools students about a variety of STEM
concepts

> “Our goal is to find a fun and engaging way to introduce students to what
> life is like as an engineer.”
>
> **Kishen Mitra** | Duke junior, biomedical engineering, and Innoworks Leader

Over five days, Duke students work with small teams of campers, who attend two
interactive lessons and conduct two experiments per day. Camp leaders select a
theme for the camp the year before, and they then develop corresponding
lessons, activities and coordinated lectures that relate engineering topics to
that theme.

In previous years, these topics have ranged from earthquakes to deep-sea
exploration. For summer 2022, the camp theme was “Mission to Mars,” which
proved to be a big hit with the participating middle schoolers.

“On the first day we did a lesson that taught students about physics and
rocket design to give them a glimpse at what it takes to actually get into
space,” says Mitra. “Then the following days, we had lessons and experiments
on topics like solar power, rover racing and sustainability. And on the final
days, we covered what it takes to return to Earth like it was the end of a
journey.”

“My favorite part was a project that involved learning how we could
sustainably grow food in space using hydroponics,” says Harrison Gattis, one
of the Innoworks participants. “It was a fun lesson, and it was really cool to
do the work on Duke’s campus with college students.”

“On one of the days we had an obstacle course using rovers that we programmed,
and it was really challenging but fun to figure out how to quickly solve
problems with our team,” says Aneesha Chugh, a rising eighth-grader. “I also
loved going to the lectures and hearing from Duke professors about their
work.”

The 2022 Innoworks camp marked the first in-person camp since 2019. And, while
Innoworks leaders had developed a virtual option, they were glad to see so
many students excited to return to the program.

“We had more than 40 students participate this year, and they came each day
energized and ready for the day’s work," said Saajan Patel, Innoworks camp
counselor. "Being involved with Innoworks has been one of the most rewarding
experiences I’ve had so far at Duke. It’s fun seeing something spark a
student’s interest in engineering for the first time.”

## Related News

April 19, 2022

### K-12 Outreach: Let There Be LITE

May 24, 2018

### Girls STEM Day @ Duke Fuels the STEM Pipeline

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

