

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Exploring Tiny Forces with Single Molecule Force Spectroscopy

January 15, 2020

Stretching molecules and pulling them apart reveals volumes about the way they
function

In terms of space organization, DNA has powers rivaling Marie Kondo. A strand
of DNA that is two meters long intricately folds itself into a cell nucleus
only 10 microns across. (One of the hairs on your head has a diameter of 100
microns, and you can’t see anything smaller than that without a microscope.)
Everything that needs to happen biochemically for the DNA to function hinges
upon the precise unpacking and unwinding of its strands from that tiny space.

> In terms of space organization, DNA has powers rivaling Marie Kondo.

But the study of DNA and other complex molecules often focuses not on their
mechanical properties but on their chemical processes, noted Duke mechanical
engineering and materials science professor Piotr Marszalek. While biochemical
research has led to breakthrough applications like cloning, gene therapy and
gene expression profiling, Marszalek said the intense focus on the single area
has sometimes overshadowed the importance of mechanics in understanding the
relationship between molecular structure and function.

Marszalek belongs to a community of researchers using single molecule force
spectroscopy (SMFS) to study molecular structure, and the forces that
stabilize these structures. Currently, there are three main approaches to
SMFS: atomic force microscopy (AFM), which scans the surface of a molecule
with a probe the size of a few atoms and is able to mechanically stretch these
molecules; optical tweezers, which attract particles via focused lasers (and
which earned their inventor, Arthur Ashkin, a Nobel Prize in physics); and
magnetic tweezers, whose draw is so powerful that Marszalek warned me against
handling them, for fear that my skin would be pinched between the magnetic
cylinders and I would find them impossible to pry apart.

Each approach enables researchers to capture a single molecule—like DNA, or a
bit of muscle or other protein—and slowly stretch it to observe what happens.

It doesn’t just snap in half, as you might expect.

Polypeptide chains are folded locally, Marszalek explained, in a way that
forms small globules. “When you initially stretch a protein, you make a
straight structure,” he said. “But when you pull further, everything begins to
unwind. You can pull and pull without breaking, and in extreme cases a domain
may unravel and offer extra length to protect itself.”

> “When you initially stretch a protein, you make a straight structure. But
> when you pull further, everything begins to unwind. You can pull and pull
> without breaking, and in extreme cases a domain may unravel and offer extra
> length to protect itself.”
>
> Piotr Marszalek, Duke Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Marszalek emphasized that this is not news—in May 1997, three papers on this
topic were published almost simultaneously, one in _Nature_ (Robert Simmons’s
team used optical tweezers) and two in _Science_ (Carlos Bustamante’s team
also used optical tweezers, while Herman Gaub’s team used AFM). But those
discoveries taught researchers much about how muscle is built, and reinforce
the importance of understanding mechanics at the smallest scale.

Marszalek currently works to understand how molecules recover their shapes and
function once the tension exerted upon them is relaxed. Take firefly
luciferase—when correctly folded, this protein bioluminesces. When it loses
its structure, it becomes a simple polymer, incapable of producing light.
Other proteins, at the same point of collapse, benefit from the assistance of
“chaperone enzymes” that aid in the recovery of their original shape. How they
do it, exactly, is unclear, and learning more about that mechanism could give
insight into how our bodies heal after physical stress.

Some of Marszalek’s colleagues are working out the mechanics of bacterial
infections—how bacteria like staph are able to detect receptor proteins in
cells and latch onto them so tenaciously that the bloodstream is unable to
wash them away. The strength of that bond was successfully measured in 2017
using AFM, and discovering how to dissolve the bonds could aid in the fight
against such deadly infections.

In the end of the summer in 2019, the National Science Foundation funded a
SMFS workshop that Marszalek organized, alongside the University of Texas
Medical Branch’s Andres F. Oberhauser. Held at Duke, the workshop brought
together the luminaries who pioneered SMFS techniques decades ago with junior
researchers focusing on future prospects for force spectroscopy. The intense
agenda of sessions and roundtables lasted well into the evening hours each
day, as participants covered the major accomplishments enabled by each
technique, proposed future directions, and mulled over roadblocks that are
impeding further progress.

It was also, as Marszalek had hoped, a swap meet for tools and ideas.
Researchers at the University of Colorado-Boulder offered up molecules that
can be used as “handles” to pull other molecules apart; a researcher from
Johns Hopkins demonstrated how laser tweezers can be used to capture freshly
synthesized proteins. Marszalek himself walked away with a shiny new
collaboration with the University of Milwaukee, whose physicists have deep
expertise with magnetic tweezers.

“Single molecule force spectroscopy has clearly come of age and produced many
seminal discoveries within mechanobiology and mechanochemistry fields,” said
Marszalek. “The excitement about SMFS approaches is steadily increasing, but
there are challenges to be solved, particularly when it comes to exploiting
SMFS to study mechanical properties and forces inside living cells. As
researchers develop clever approaches to achieve that goal, this subject alone
could be a theme of another exciting symposium.”

More from Duke MEMS

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

