

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Fecal Matters: Learning About Health Through Waste

January 10, 2019 | by Alissa Kocer

The Duke "Smart Toilet" looks to make use of the valuable information about
our health that we literally flush away multiple times a day.

_From Duke MEDx_

Every day—multiple times a day—we dispose of valuable information about our
health without even thinking about it. We simply flush it away. Literally.

Our daily excreta—feces and urine—can tell us a lot about our health, but, so
far, testing has been under-developed for precision health monitoring. Part of
the problem is the collection process. A newly funded Bass Connections project
team is looking to change that. Geoff Ginsburg, director of the Duke Center
for Applied Genomics and Precision Medicine and the MEDx Initiative, has
partnered with the Duke University Center for Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and
Infection Disease (WaSH-AID) for the _Smart Toilet: A disruptive technology to
improve health and wellness Bass Connections project._

The Duke “Smart Toilet,” will enable the hands-free collection and packaging
of human excreta to test and monitor wellness and disease. The Smart Toilet is
a novel platform with the potential to transform healthcare as it will
generate individualized biological data that can be used for early disease
detection, surveillance for infectious disease and continuous personalized
health and wellness monitoring through apps and digital health wearable
devices.

Ginsburg, along with Sonia Grego, Ph.D., and Katelyn Sellgren, Ph.D., both of
Electrical and Computer Engineering and WaSH-AID in the Pratt School of
Engineering, will lead a team of 6-9 undergraduate students to develop the
hands-off collection of biospecimens and evaluate the analytical validity of
testing the samples using the Duke Smart Toilet platform. The team will also
be tasked with developing a business and regulatory strategy for the device
and will have the opportunity to participate in the spectrum of activities
involved with product development.

Students will be able to apply to join the team starting January 22. The
application deadline is February 15 at 5 P.M.

_This project is supported by Bass Connections and the MEDx Initiative. Other
team contributors include Brian Stoner, Ph.D., professor, ECE/Pratt and
Director for WaSH-AID; Jeff Glass, Ph.D., Professor, ECE/Pratt and Hogg Family
Director of Engineering Management and Entrepreneurship; Holly Dressman,
Ph.D., Professor, Molecular Genetics and Microbiology/Medicine and Director of
the Microbiome Shared Resource; and Douglas Calahan and Eric Levitan,
independent consultants and advisers to early-stage businesses._

MORE ON DUKE'S WORK TO REINVENT THE TOILET

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

