

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Finding New Life for First-Line Antibiotics

April 23, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

A simple strategy could make first-line antibiotics more effective against
resistant bacteria.

Researchers have identified a single, simple metric to inform medication
regimen design that could bring an entire arsenal of first-line antibiotics
back into the fight against drug-resistant pathogens.

A computer simulation created by Hannah Meredith, a biomedical engineering
graduate fellow at Duke University, revealed that a regimen based on a
pathogen’s recovery time could eliminate an otherwise resistant strain of
bacteria. In theory, a database of recovery times for bacterial and antibiotic
combinations could allow first-line antibiotics to clear many resistant
infections.

Meredith has already begun lab work to create such a database, and early tests
are confirming her model’s predictions.

The study appears in PLOS Computational Biology on April 23, 2015.

“Bacteria are forming resistance to antibiotics faster than we can make new
ones, so there is a real need to use the antibiotics that are already on the
market more efficiently,” said Meredith. “We hope this research will help
hospitals improve patient outcomes while also making our antibiotics last as
long as possible.”

The computer simulation models the relationship between bacteria, antibiotics
and a method of resistance called beta-lactamase—an enzyme that degrades beta-
lactam antibiotics, one of the largest and most-used classes of antibiotics.
Many beta-lactam antibiotics are currently disregarded out of concern for the
infection being completely resistant to that type of antibiotic—even if the
antibiotic appeared to be effective in the lab. The new model, however,
reveals that the infection might be temporarily sensitive to the antibiotic
before the beta-lactamase degrades the drug and allows the infection to
recover.

“You can think of this as a race between the cells and the antibiotics,” said
Lingchong You, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke and Meredith’s advisor. “Before their beta-lactamase
degrades the antibiotics, the cells are still sensitive and can be killed. But
the antibiotics degrade faster than the cell population declines, allowing
some cells to survive and repopulate.”

When clinicians realize an infection is resistant, they often skip straight to
some of the strongest antibiotics available. But the study indicates that if
they instead changed the dosing frequency of first-line antibiotics such that
each dose is delivered while the bacteria are weakened during their recovery
period, some infections could be cleared without skipping to the last resort.

Doctors also need to be careful, however, not to wreck native populations of
bacteria vital to human health. A database detailing the responses of
different strains to different antibiotics could allow Meredith’s computer
model to determine the most efficient regimen to keep total exposure to a
minimum. It could also indicate if multiple doses would not work, letting
clinicians know when it is time to call in the heavy artillery.

“There’s already a lot of work already being done to determine antibiotic
dosing schedules,” said You. “But that typically involves building a model
based on many complex biological mechanisms. This takes a lot of time, and
there are thousands of constantly evolving bacterial strains, making it
impossible for researchers to catch up. We’re trying to see if this one, easy-
to-test metric of recovery time can make a good enough prediction without
years of study.”

Meredith has already begun laboratory work to answer this question and
validate her computational model. She has received 80 well-known antibiotic-
resistant bacteria strains from Duke Medicine and is putting her theory to the
test.

And the early results are promising.

“Our preliminary data has confirmed many of the clinical aspects of the
model’s predictions, so we are tremendously excited by those,” said Meredith.
“If this strategy is successful, it could potentially reintroduce a large
number of first-line antibiotics for patient treatment.”

This work was funded by the National Science Foundation (CBET-0953202), the
National Institutes of Health (1R01GM098642, 1RO1GM110494), a DuPont Young
Professorship award, a David and Lucile Packard Fellowship, the National
Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, and the Howard G. Clark
Fellowship.

###

“Bacterial Temporal Dynamics Enable Optimal Design of Antibiotic Treatment,”
Hannah R. Meredith, Allison J. Lopatkin, Deverick J. Anderson, Lingchong You.
PLOS Computational Biology, 2015, 11(4): e1004201. DOI:
10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004201

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

