

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# First Contracting Human Muscle Grown in Laboratory

January 13, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers at Duke University report the first lab-grown, contracting human
muscle, which could revolutionize drug discovery and personalized medicine.

In a laboratory first, Duke researchers have grown human skeletal muscle that
contracts and responds just like native tissue to external stimuli such as
electrical pulses, biochemical signals and pharmaceuticals.

The lab-grown tissue should soon allow researchers to test new drugs and study
diseases in functioning human muscle outside of the human body.

The study was led by Nenad Bursac, associate professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke University, and Lauran Madden, a postdoctoral researcher
in Bursac’s laboratory. It appears January 13 in the open-access journal
eLife.

“The beauty of this work is that it can serve as a test bed for clinical
trials in a dish,” said Bursac. “We are working to test drugs’ efficacy and
safety without jeopardizing a patient’s health and also to reproduce the
functional and biochemical signals of diseases—especially rare ones and those
that make taking muscle biopsies difficult.”

Bursac and Madden started with a small sample of human cells that had already
progressed beyond stem cells but hadn’t yet become muscle tissue. They
expanded these “myogenic precursors” by more than a 1000-fold, and then put
them into a supportive, 3D scaffolding filled with a nourishing gel that
allowed them to form aligned and functioning muscle fibers.

“We have a lot of experience making bioartifical muscles from animal cells in
the laboratory, and it still took us a year of adjusting variables like cell
and gel density and optimizing the culture matrix and media to make this work
with human muscle cells,” said Madden.

Madden subjected the new muscle to a barrage of tests to determine how closely
it resembled native tissue inside a human body. She found that the muscles
robustly contracted in response to electrical stimuli—a first for human muscle
grown in a laboratory. She also showed that the signaling pathways allowing
nerves to activate the muscle were intact and functional.

To see if the muscle could be used as a proxy for medical tests, Bursac and
Madden studied its response to a variety of drugs, including statins used to
lower cholesterol and clenbuterol, a drug known to be used off-label as a
performance enhancer for athletes.

The effects of the drugs matched those seen in human patients. The statins had
a dose-dependent response, causing abnormal fat accumulation at high
concentrations. Clenbuterol showed a narrow beneficial window for increased
contraction. Both of these effects have been documented in humans. Clenbuterol
does not harm muscle tissue in rodents at those doses, showing the lab-grown
muscle was giving a truly human response.

“One of our goals is to use this method to provide personalized medicine to
patients,” said Bursac. “We can take a biopsy from each patient, grow many new
muscles to use as test samples and experiment to see which drugs would work
best for each person.”

This goal may not be far away; Bursac is already working on a study with
clinicians at Duke Medicine—including Dwight Koeberl, associate professor of
pediatrics—to try to correlate efficacy of drugs in patients with the effects
on lab-grown muscles. Bursac's group is also trying to grow contracting human
muscles using induced pluripotent stem cells instead of biopsied cells.

“There are a some diseases, like Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy for example, that
make taking muscle biopsies difficult,” said Bursac. “If we could grow
working, testable muscles from induced pluripotent stem cells, we could take
one skin or blood sample and never have to bother the patient again.”

Other investigators involved in this study include George Truskey, the R.
Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical Engineering and senior
associate dean for research for the Pratt School of Engineering, and William
Krauss, professor of biomedical engineering, medicine and nursing at Duke
University.

The research was supported by NIH Grants R01AR055226 and R01AR065873 from the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Disease and
UH2TR000505 from the NIH Common Fund for the Microphysiological Systems
Initiative.

# # #

CITATION: "Bioengineered human myobundles mimic clinical responses of skeletal
muscle to drugs," Lauran Madden, Mark Juhas, William E Kraus, George A
Truskey, Nenad Bursac. eLife, Jan. 13, 2015. DOI: 10.7554/eLife.04885

Download a copy of the research artice from Duke Libraries.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

