

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# C. Frank Starmer, BSEE'63, MSEE'65, PhD, Wins 2018 Distinguished Faculty
Award

June 12, 2018

Starmer made pivotal contributions to an era of tremendous innovation at the
interface of medicine, engineering, and computational sciences

_From Duke University School of Medicine_

Over a Duke career spanning more than a half-century, electrical engineer and
computational specialist Frank Starmer made pivotal contributions to an era of
tremendous innovation at the interface of medicine, engineering, and
computational sciences.

Starmer, who first arrived at Duke in 1959 as an engineering undergraduate,
says that he chose to attend Duke because of its strong foundational in
fundamental physical processes, and recalls Professor John Artley's _Fields_
class as particularly impactful. "I realized that in problem-solving I must
first understand the basis for what I was doing and then build on that, as
opposed to simply building on the work of others," said Starmer. "Engineering
was all about problem-solving, so I concocted a five-step recipe: 1)
Articulate the problem; 2) Collect data thought to be relevant to the problem;
3) Analyze the data; 4) Synthesize a solution; and 5) Test the solution. If
the test results are off target, then iterate back to Step One, refine the
articulation, improve and focus data collection, improve and focus the
analysis and with these new insights, synthesize a new solution. Then test
again, repeating as many times as necessary to solve the problem."

> I realized that in problem-solving I must first understand the basis for
> what I was doing and then build on that, as opposed to simply building on
> the work of others.
>
> C. FRANK STARMER  
> BSEE '63, MSEE '65, PHD

Starmer credits the training in Artley's class with driving him to work toward
a rational, unified, observation-based approach to modeling clinical
processes. Even as a Duke undergraduate, Starmer was already applying his
engineering studies and problem-solving strategy to medicine. That early work
would evolve into major biomedical advances, including a partnership with the
Duke Cardiac Catheterization Lab and thoracic surgeons to develop the
electrical threshold of ventricular fibrillation as the basis for the national
code for grounding in hospital critical care areas. Together with Joseph
Greenfield, MD, HS’57-’59, and Andy Wallace, MD’59, HS’59-’64, he secured a
National Institutes of Health grant to enable Duke University School of
Medicine to buy its first digital computer for a study on myocardial
infarction.

One of Starmer’s most visible contributions at Duke was creating a system to
capture data from patients undergoing coronary angiography, with the goal of
using this information to improve the care of future patients. So was born the
Duke Databank for Cardiovascular Disease, the forerunner of the Duke Clinical
Research Institute. DCRI is now the world’s largest database on the outcomes
of cardiovascular care and orchestrates dozens of major clinical trials each
year. While putting together the computational infrastructure for the
databank, Starmer was asked to help start Duke’s Computer Science
Department—another of his many contributions to the growth of Duke University
and its emergence as a top-tier research university.

> While putting together the computational infrastructure for the databank,
> Starmer was asked to help start Duke’s Computer Science Department—another
> of his many contributions to the growth of Duke University and its emergence
> as a top-tier research university.

In 2006, after eight years in Charleston, South Carolina, Starmer was enticed
back to Duke—this time to undertake the herculean task of developing the IT
infrastructure for the nascent Duke-National University of Singapore Medical
School (Duke-NUS). As associate dean for learning technologies, he was
instrumental in getting the school off the ground and spearheaded the
implementation of a robust IT infrastructure necessary for the school’s then-
revolutionary decision to deliver the curriculum exclusively through team-
based learning (TBL). Duke-NUS was the first medical school in the world to
use TBL for 100 percent of its preclinical coursework; many other schools are
following suit. He also created an anytime/anywhere learning environment for
first-year students by packaging lectures on USB drives; leveraged smartphones
and Bluetooth-enabled medical devices to build a real-time feedback loop
between patients and care providers; and engineered a smartphone app for
medication compliance and status monitoring.

Starmer regularly collaborated with colleagues throughout the world, with
special emphasis on his beloved Greece and India. In Singapore, he mentored
and trained medical students, especially those with an engineering bent. He
even helped local Singaporean educators implement TBL in their classrooms.
Starmer credits mentors Greenfield, and Wallace along with Eugene Stead, MD;
Gus Grant, MD, PhD, HS’79-’80; James Wyngaarden, MD, PhD, G’06,; and Ranga
Krishnan, MD, HS’81-’84, for much of his success. He has paid that inspiration
forward as a mentor himself; brilliant, imaginative, and hard-working, Starmer
is known for his ability to foster an environment for that kindles the joy of
learning, whether in the classroom, clinic, or computer lab, and for
motivating his team of IT and education specialists to push beyond perceived
limits.

More alumni news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

