

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kevin Fraser Named North Carolina’s First Tau Beta Pi Laureate

August 15, 2017

Electrical and computer engineering graduate first North Carolina student to
earn the distinction

Kevin Fraser, a 2017 graduate of Duke University majoring in electrical and
computer engineering, has been elected as a 2017 Laureate of the Tau Beta Pi
Association. Fraser joins a select group of only 105 Laureates chosen since
1982, and is the first to earn the distinction from Duke—or any university in
North Carolina.

“Being selected as a Tau Beta Pi Laureate is an absolute honor,” said Fraser,
who is now working in the Portfolio Analytics Group at BlackRock in New York
City. “Duke has always pushed me to be engaged beyond the classroom by
supporting my athletic commitment and valuing involvement both on and off
campus. Over the last four years, the opportunity to learn from professors,
student peers and members of the greater Durham community has been an exciting
and invaluable piece of my education and experience as a Blue Devil.”

"Kevin's inspired achievements - in the classroom, pool, and community - and
his record of academic excellence while at Duke mark him as most worthy of
this special recognition,” said Michael Gustafson, associate professor of the
practice of electrical and computer engineering at Duke. “As the advisor for
Tau Beta Pi at Duke, I also want to thank Henry Yuen and the rest of the
chapter's leadership for their work compiling and promoting Kevin's
application."

The Tau Beta Pi Laureate Program recognizes up to five Tau Beta Pi student
members each year who outstandingly exemplify the "spirit of liberal culture
in engineering colleges." Award categories include arts, athletics, diverse
achievements and service.

Besides excelling in the classroom, Fraser was a valuable member of Duke’s
swim team for four years. Specializing in sprint distances in freestyle and
breaststroke, Fraser ranked fourth on Duke's all-time performance list in the
200 medley relay. In his senior season, he finished seventh in the 100-meter
breaststroke and 10th in the 50-meter freestyle at the Nike Cup Invitational.
He was a two-time All-ACC Academic Team selection and four-time ACC Academic
Honor Roll selection.

Originally from Quebec, Canada, Fraser was a recipient of Duke’s Karsh
International Scholarship created to bring together top students from all over
the world.

Fraser will receive his honor at the 2017 Tau Beta Pi Convention held in
Dearborn, Michigan, on October 12-14, 2017.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

