

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gaurav Arya: Modeling Soft Matter with Hard Calculations

November 17, 2016

New faculty member Gaurav Arya develops molecular models of soft-matter to
advance fields from energy to health care

Gaurav Arya will join the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science at Duke University beginning July 1, 2017. With expertise in modeling
the motion and interactions of atoms and molecules, Arya seeks to predict
macroscopic properties of “soft matter” for applications ranging from solar
energy to cancer diagnosis and treatment.

Soft matter describes much of the world that people interact with on a daily
basis, encompassing most everything that isn’t rigid and hard like metals or
crystals. Rubber and skin, cells and DNA, and plastics and gels all fit the
definition.

At the molecular scale, soft matter describes atoms and molecules that have at
least a little bit of freedom to move around relative to one another—this is
precisely what makes soft matter soft. Exactly how they move and interact
depends on a number of variables such as the types of atoms involved, what
sorts of molecular bonds they share, the temperature of the system and much
more.

“The common thread connecting all of my research is that these soft materials
are difficult to study experimentally because you can’t see molecular movement
and interactions at that scale,” said Arya, who joins Duke from the University
of California – San Diego. “But the systems are so complex that they are also
difficult to model computationally. My laboratory works to get around these
hurdles to predict how molecular interactions dictate how a material behaves
on the macroscopic level.”

Arya earned his bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from the Indian
Institute of Technology – Bombay before completing his PhD in the same field
at the University of Notre Dame in 2003. He then held postdoctoral research
and assistant research scientist positions at Princeton University and New
York University, respectively, before joining the faculty of UC-San Diego in
2007.

Throughout his career, Arya’s research has had many potential applications,
each of which he plans to pursue while at Duke.

In one line of research, Arya is studying nanoscale devices made entirely from
genetic material by folding DNA in a manner similar to how one folds a piece
of paper in traditional Japanese origami. Requiring exquisite precision and
complexity, structures assembled in this way are typically mechanically rigid.
Arya, however, is working toward designing structures that are more dynamic
and compliant with the ultimate aim of creating mechanically functional
nanodevices that could have applications in drug delivery, robotics, sensing,
manufacturing and energy.

In the biological realm, Arya is trying to understand the structure of how DNA
is packaged. Life’s genetic code is wrapped around proteins called histones
and bundled tightly, but is still mobile. Genes are constantly being
unpackaged and repackaged when becoming active or shut off during the
infinitely complex routine of life. Better understanding of how this process
works could lead to new genetic drugs or therapies, or could help spot
cancerous aberrations much earlier than is currently possible.

Also relevant to biology and medicine, Arya is trying to unravel the molecular
mechanism by which viruses package DNA into their capsids. DNA packaging is
carried out by some of the most powerful molecular motors known to mankind—100
time more powerful than the motor proteins found in muscles. By studying these
fascinating motors, Arya hopes to provide insights into combating viral
infection and devising synthetic mimics of these motors that would be useful
in nanotechnology.

Last but not least, Arya is using simulations to devise strategies for
fabricating coatings made out of polymers carrying silver nanocubes within to
harness solar energy. When silver nanocubes are precisely aligned near each
other, they create structures that resonate with certain frequencies of light.
By tailoring the properties of the polymer, Arya is dictating the placement of
tens of thousands of nanocubes to create electromagnetic hotspots to focus the
sun’s energy.

“All of these topics have strong collaborations with experimental researchers.
I love to work with them because we’re addressing real problems and finding
real solutions that are useful for mankind,” said Arya. “That’s a big reason
why I’m moving to Duke, because it offers tremendous opportunities to work
with fantastic experimentalists.”

“We are very excited to add Gaurav to our faculty,” said Ken Gall, professor
and chair of the department of mechanical engineering and materials science.
“Gaurav is an outstanding scientist and is a great fit with the MEMS
Department and Duke materials effort. His work in computational modeling of
soft materials at multiple length scales fills a gap at Duke and compliments
our top faculty in experimental soft materials and computational hard
materials.”

More broadly across campus, Arya mentions Duke’s strengths in materials
science, energy research, large-scale computing, continuum and quantum
mechanics, and machine learning as reasons he was attracted to the university.
He’s also looking forward to working with Duke’s students.

Arya hopes to introduce classes both at the undergraduate and graduate level
that focus on how properties of materials are fundamentally linked to how
their molecules interact and move. He also plans to continue his legacy of
getting undergraduates involved in research.

“I’ve had more than 30 undergraduate students working in my research teams in
the past several years,” said Arya. “I’m really looking forward to Duke
because I know that it has fabulous undergraduate students and I would love to
work with them and help them succeed and achieve their dreams.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

