

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gauging Renewable Energy Generation Using Satellite Imagery

February 14, 2018

Duke-World Resources Institute team among five finalists in the GBDX
Sustainability Challenge

_From the Duke University Energy Initiative_

Researchers connected with Duke's Energy Data Analytics Lab and Applied
Machine Learning Lab, working in partnership with the World Resources
Institute, are among five finalist teams in the GBDX for Sustainability
Challenge.

The GBDX for Sustainability Challenge is sponsored by DigitalGlobe, a Maxar
Technologies company, with support from Amazon Web Services. The competition
is intended to spur innovation with the potential to address the United
Nations' 18 Sustainable Development Goals.

More than 70 teams proposed bold ideas using geospatial big data to drive
progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals. Five teams—including
Duke's—have been named finalists. For the next two months, each finalist team
will have access to Digital Globe's geospatial big data platform (GBDX) and
100+ petabyte image library, one of the largest collections of satellite
imagery data available to the public or private sectors. In April, judges will
review their progress and select an overall winner.

The Duke/World Resources Institute team will undertake a project using high-
resolution satellite imagery and computer vision to build an open database of
global power plants.

"Providing clean, affordable energy is one of the most important challenges
the world faces today, as highlighted in Sustainable Development Goal 7
(Affordable and Clean Energy)," noted the team's proposal. "Achieving that
goal will require a range of actions, many of which depend on a detailed
analysis of the electric power sector. Unfortunately, data about the power
sector is limited or lacking in many countries, or only available in
proprietary formats."

The team will apply computer vision algorithms to high-resolution satellite
imagery provided by DigitalGlobe to geolocate and characterize wind and solar
power generation facilities around the world. Information about these power
plants is especially important to show how rapidly the power sector is
changing. The data will be aggregated and released in open format, to support
applications including energy sector transition planning, grid integration of
renewable power, and clean energy public education.

"We’ve developed successful techniques for automatically identifying
distributed generation resources in a research environment, using publicly
available data," explained Kyle Bradbury, managing director of Duke's Energy
Data Analytics Lab. "Access to the massive DigitalGlobe archive will enable us
to test our algorithms on a much larger scale and on more recent satellite
imagery data."

The Duke / World Resources Institute teams will be competing with **** four
other finalists:

  * UNICEF, Big Pixel Initiative at UC San Diego, Development Seed - "Mapping
    Schools to Reduce the Digital Divide";
  * Ernst & Young, Cornell University, Metabolic, Geodan, Trinity College
    Dublin, University College Dublin, University of Amsterdam, University of
    Toronto - "Global Green City Watch";
  * London School of Economics, University of Oxford - "Monitoring Economic
    Activity in Large-Scale Industrial Areas"; and
  * 20tree.ai - "Deforestation Intelligence for Cerrado."

Duke University's Energy Data Analytics Lab is developing and applying
advanced data analytics tools to advance an accessible, affordable, reliable,
and clean energy system. The lab is a partnership among the Duke University
Energy Initiative (its institutional home), the Information Initiative at
Duke, and the Social Science Research Institute.

The Applied Machine Learning Lab is based in Duke's Pratt School of
Engineering.

The World Resources Institute is a global research organization working on six
critical goals that the world must achieve this decade in order to secure a
sustainable future: climate, energy, food, forests, water, cities & transport.

_Questions about the Energy Data Analytics Lab?_ Contact managing director Dr.
Kyle Bradbury.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

