

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Genetic Targeting Gives Cancer Therapy a Better Shot at Success

September 16, 2019

A promising cancer therapy overcomes the body’s innate resistance using
CRISPR/Cas targeting and drug delivery gel

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed a method to address
failures in a promising anti-cancer drug, bringing together tools from genome
engineering, protein engineering and biomaterials science to improve the
efficacy, accuracy and longevity of certain cancer therapies.

Using a combination of CRISPR-based targeting, a protein “depot” that allows
for sustained release of the drug and a highly potent binding system, the team
showed that their new strategy could overcome three critical problems that
limit the efficacy of many cancer drugs— their limited potency, their quick
elimination from the body, and the ability of cancer cells to develop
resistance to the drug.

The research appeared online Sept. 4 in the journal Science Advances.

More than 20 years ago, researchers discovered that the protein drug TRAIL,
short for TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand, could effectively kill cancer
cells without harming healthy cells -- at least, in the lab. TRAIL works by
binding to specific protein receptors on cancer cells, ominously called death
receptors, sending a signal that causes the cells to self-destruct. Although
initial experiments showed the drug worked in a variety of cancer cell lines,
including melanoma, lymphoma, pancreatic, prostate, lung, colon and breast
cancer, TRAIL and similar drugs surprised researchers by showing limited
success in clinical trials.

After more study, scientists pinpointed three reasons why the promising drug
failed: TRAIL wasn’t potent enough, the drug was being cleared from the body
too quickly and some cancer cells were resistant to the therapy.

Using a combination of three tools -- a highly potent protein drug, a “depot”
that allows for sustained release of the drug, and CRISPR/Cas9 based gene
editing to pinpoint the cause of resistance to the drug -- the Duke team,
which included Mandana Manzari, a recent PhD graduate, Ashutosh Chilkoti, the
chair of Duke biomedical engineering, and Kris Wood, an assistant professor of
pharmacology and cancer biology, demonstrated that their new strategy could
provide a solution to these problems and give protein-based anti-cancer
“biologics” like TRAIL that failed in the clinic a second chance.

“The real significance of this research for me is the true cross-disciplinary
nature of it,” said Manzari, first author on the paper and now a post-doctoral
researcher at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York. “This is
really the first example I’ve seen where we’re bringing in pharmacology, drug
delivery, and genomics to pinpoint the exact circumstances that cause a
biologic to fail and then develop solutions.”

The first step of the process involved addressing TRAIL’s limited potency.
Typically, cells have multiple death receptors, but a specific receptor called
death receptor 5 (DR5) is more prevalent in certain cancer cells. TRAIL, a
three-part protein, binds to DR5 and links three death receptors together,
sending a signal for cells to self-destruct. TRAIL can also bind to other
death receptors and "decoy" receptors on normal cells. A more potent drug
would be specific for a given death receptor, like DR5 that is present on
cancer cells, and link together larger numbers of the receptor on a cell
surface to send a stronger death signal to the cancer cell.

Manzari produced a highly potent, six-part death receptor agonist (DRA) that
could bind six death receptors together and indude a much stronger self-
destruct signal.

Next, the team examined how to prevent the super-potent death receptor agonist
from being cleared from the body too quickly. They genetically fused the DRA
to a temperature-responsive protein called elastin-like polypeptide (ELP),
which forms a gel-like “depot” within a room-temperature solution. After the
solution is injected under the skin, it dissolves, releasing the DRA over a
longer period of time.

Finally, Chilkoti and Manzari partnered with Kris Wood to better understand
what caused certain cells to resist death by TRAIL or death receptor agonist
(DRA). The team systematically disabled various genes in the cancer cells
using CRISPR/Cas9 until they could deduce which were responsible for TRAIL or
DRA resistance. Then they selected drugs to target the proteins produced by
those genes and paired them with the DRA slow-release depot.

“This work opens another exciting avenue for targeting a critical cell death
pathway in cancer, an area of increasing interest in the translational cancer
therapeutics community,” Wood said.

“When we figured out the genes that drive resistance, we were able to map them
to commercially-available drugs that could specifically target the proteins
that come from those genes,” said Manzari. “It basically gave us a platform to
figure out what drugs we can combine with the DRA in cases where this drug or
other protein drugs don’t work well to nip that resistance in the bud.”

With their triple-whammy tool, the team was able to effectively overcome
intrinsic resistance, repress tumor growth and extend survival in mice that
were implanted with colorectal cancers from human patients that are highly
resistant to treatment with TRAIL.

Now, the researchers are considering how they could apply this method to other
protein and small-molecule drugs that face similar barriers that limit their
effectiveness.

“I think the thing that really sets this approach apart is designing each
piece of the platform rationally to address a specific problem and bringing
them all together holistically to solve three critical problems that limit not
just TRAIL, but many new cancer therapies,” Chilkoti said.

“Typically the protein engineering is one platform, the ELP strategy is one
platform and the genomic screen strategy is its own platform,” Manzari said.
“This is a good example of true synergy of engineering, pharmacology, genomics
and materials. People always talk about bringing those together, and this is a
clear example of that.”

This research was funded by the National Institutes of Health
(5R01EB007025-08, 5R01EB000188-12, 5R01GM061232-16, R01CA207083, and
5T32GM007105) and the Duke University BME/DCI Collaborative Grant.

CITATION: “Genomically Informed Small Molecule Drugs Overcome Resistance to a
Sustained Release Formulation of an Engineered Death Receptor Agonist in
Patient-Derived Tumor Models,” Mandana T. Manzari, Grace R. Anderson, Kevin H.
Lin, Ryan S. Soderquist, Merve Cakir, Mitchell Zhang, Chandler E. Moore,
Rachel N. Skelton, Mareva Fevre, Xinghai Li, Joseph J. Bellucci, Suzanne E.
Wardell, Simone A. Costa, Kris C. Wood, Ashutosh Chilkoti. Science Advances,
2019. DOI 10.1126/sciadv.aaw9162

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

