

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Geoffrey Ginsburg Named Director of New Duke Engineering-Duke School of
Medicine Partnership

August 10, 2015

MEDx was created to enhance existing ties and foster new collaborations
between Duke's Pratt School of Engineering and Duke School of Medicine

Geoffrey Ginsburg, MD, PhD, has been named director of MEDx (Medicine and
Engineering at Duke), leaders of the Duke University School of Medicine and
Pratt School of Engineering announced on August 10. Ginsburg will serve for an
initial three-year term.

MEDx is a new entity at Duke created to enhance existing ties and foster new
interdisciplinary collaborations between the School of Medicine (SoM) and
Pratt School of Engineering (Pratt), as the first part of a forthcoming
Provost initiative to create opportunities at the intersections of academic
units. The goal is to better achieve the two schools’ many shared goals: 1)
developing new therapies, diagnostics and devices; 2) accelerating basic
science and its translation into clinical practice; 3) creating innovative
educational opportunities for students; and 4) improving the quality and
effectiveness of patient care.

MEDx will foster the exchange of ideas and will create research opportunities
between physicians, engineers, computer scientists, researchers and
innovators. It will promote the training of the next generation of researchers
and clinicians to work symbiotically on new solutions to complex clinical
problems.

A professor of medicine, pathology, and biomedical engineering and director of
the Center for Applied Genomics and Precision Medicine at Duke, Ginsburg has
worked extensively with faculty across both schools, as well as with
interdisciplinary University teams including the Information Initiative at
Duke, Duke Institute for Brain Sciences and Duke Global Health Institute.

“Dr. Ginsburg’s own research program provides an excellent model for the kinds
of partnerships we hope will arise from MEDx,” wrote SOM Dean Nancy C.
Andrews, Vinik Dean of Engineering Tom Katsouleas, and incoming interim dean
of engineering George Truskey in a joint announcement. “Dr. Ginsburg also
brings valuable perspectives on the research funding landscape through his
leadership on committees of the Institute of Medicine and National Institutes
of Health, among others. We anticipate that his guidance will significantly
build upon the approximately $38 million in collaborative research awards our
schools currently receive each year as well as develop strategic
commercialization opportunities.”

This new partnership will be funded initially through joint contributions from
the Schools of Medicine and Engineering and the Office of the Provost; the
schools also intend to seek additional philanthropic funding for MEDx. “We’d
like to thank Provost Sally Kornbluth for investing central funds in this
partnership as part of her broader vision for encouraging collaborations at
Duke,” the deans wrote. “We are excited about the potential this partnership
holds to advance both our schools and our shared goals.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

