

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Quest for New Cancer Treatment Crosses Milestone

August 26, 2019

Therapy invented by BME Professor Jennifer West excels in pilot clinical
trials

_From Rice Engineering_

A cancer therapy co-invented by Duke engineers and Rice University has crossed
a milestone in clinical trials, a major development in a decadeslong quest to
develop a treatment that destroys tumors without the debilitating side effects
of chemotherapy, invasive surgery and radiation.

Thirteen of the first 15 prostate cancer patients treated in a clinical trial
of the nanoparticle-based, focal therapy showed no detectable signs of cancer
a year after treatment, according to a study published this week in the
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS).

The paper presents the results from 16 patients who were treated at the Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York. It is believed to be the first
published clinical study of a photothermal cancer therapy—one that uses
illuminated nanoparticles to heat and destroy tumors—in a refereed scientific
journal, said the study's authors.

In the study, 16 men ages 58 to 79 with low- to intermediate-risk localized
prostate cancer agreed to participate in a trial of AuroLase Therapy, a focal
ablation treatment that uses gold nanoparticles to heat and destroy tumors.
Fifteen of the 16 patients underwent the two-day treatment, receiving an
intravenous infusion of nanoparticles on day one and undergoing an image-
guided ablation treatment on day two. All of the patients went home on the day
of the treatment and returned for follow-up tests at three months, six months
and one year after treatment. Of the 15 who completed treatment, only two
showed detectable signs of cancer in follow-up biopsies and MRIs one year
later.

"Gold-silica nanoshell infusion allows for a focused therapy that treats the
cancer while sparing the rest of the prostate, thus preserving a patient's
quality of life by reducing unwanted side effects, which could include
erectile dysfunction and/or the leakage of urine," said study lead author and
trial principal investigator Dr. Ardeshir Rastinehad, associate professor of
urology and radiology at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.

The trial, which is ongoing and has treated 44 patients at Mount Sinai and two
other clinical sites in Michigan and Texas, is the culmination of a 20-year
quest by Rice University engineer and nanoscientist Naomi Halas and Duke
University bioengineer Jennifer West. Halas and West, co-authors of the new
study, first envisioned the nanoparticle-based therapy around 2000 while
working together in Rice's Brown School of Engineering.

The particles, tiny silica spheres with a thin outer layer of gold, are called
nanoshells. They are about 50 times smaller than a red blood cell, and Halas
invented them at Rice in 1997. By varying the thickness of the gold shell,
Halas had shown she could tune nanoshells to interact with specific
wavelengths of light. Around 2000, she and West invented a method of
destroying cancer cells by heating nanoshells with a low-power, near-infrared
laser that could pass harmlessly through healthy tissue.

The work garnered national awards and press coverage, and by the early 2000s
Halas and West had co-founded a Houston-based startup, Nanospectra
Biosciences, to develop the technology for clinical use.

From the outset, West and Halas imagined a treatment that would destroy cancer
without the debilitating side effects often associated with chemotherapy,
invasive surgery and radiation. And that had been borne out in their early
studies in cell cultures and mice.

"The science hasn't changed," West said. "If you look back to our original
PNAS paper, where we did the first animal studies, there's nothing
fundamentally different in the science."

But getting clinical trials approved by the Food and Drug Administration was
not easy, in part because the technology was groundbreaking.

"We were the first, really engineered nanoparticle to go into human beings,"
West said. "In the beginning, the FDA wasn't sure how to handle these types of
materials. We had something that looked like an injectable liquid in an IV
bag. Was it a drug or a device? There was a point in time where the FDA was
discussing creating a whole new division just for nano."

In the end, the agency opted to regulate the treatment, which Nanospectra
branded as AuroLase Therapy, as a medical device. Clinical trials focused on
safety began almost 10 years ago with a study in late-stage head and neck
cancer. Halas said Nanospectra learned valuable lessons at every step, but she
said it was another big advance—this one in medical imaging—that set the stage
for the success in prostate cancer.

In 2011, researchers from the National Institutes of Health published results
of a new technique that combined ultrasound and MRI imaging to resolve
prostate tumors with millimeter-scale precision, Halas said. Clinicians began
adoption of the technique for "fusion biopsies," a procedure for targeting
needle biopsies to the specific site of suspected tumors.

One of the lead researchers working to develop fusion biopsy technology was
Rastinehad, who joined Mount Sinai in 2015 and was an early proponent of using
the fusion imaging platform for "focal therapy," minimally invasive treatment
that could target tumors without the risks of incontinence and impotency that
were associated with whole-gland treatments like surgical removal of the
prostate or radiation.

For Halas and West, the newly published study is another, important step in a
20-year journey. West said the results show what is possible when physicians
and engineers work together to solve problems.

"This work demonstrates the power of collaboration across engineering and
medicine," she said. "It shows how collaboration can enable the translation of
exciting new technologies into clinical medicine to improve the lives of
patients."

Halas is the Stanley C. Moore Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
in Rice's Brown School of Engineering, director of Rice's Smalley-Curl
Institute and a professor of chemistry, bioengineering, physics and astronomy,
and materials science and nanoengineering. West is the Fitzpatrick Family
University Professor of Engineering and associate dean for doctoral education
in Duke's Pratt School of Engineering.

Additional study co-authors include Harry Anastos, Ethan Wajswol, Jared
Winoker, John Sfakianos, Sai Doppalapudi, Michael Carrick, Cynthia Knauer,
Bachir Taouli, Sara Lewis and Ashutosh Tewari, all of Mount Sinai; Jon
Schwartz of Nanospectra Biosciences; Steven Canfield of the University of
Texas Health Science Center at Houston; and Arvin George of the University of
Michigan Health System.

The clinical trial is sponsored by Nanospectra Biosciences. Halas and West,
the company's co-founders, maintain a small equity stake in the company but
are not involved with Nanospectra Biosciences' business or strategic
decisions. Rastinehad, the national principal investigator for the multi-
institutional trial of AuroLase Therapy, is also a consultant for Nanospectra
Biosciences.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

