

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Growing Bacteria Keep Time, Know Their Place

October 8, 2013 | by Karyn Hede

Engineered gene circuit could have energy, biology implications

Working with a synthetic gene circuit designed to coax bacteria to grow in a
predictable ring pattern, Duke University scientists have revealed an
underappreciated contributor to natural pattern formation: time.

In a series of experiments published Oct. 8, 2013, in the journal _Molecular
Systems Biology_ , associate professor of biomedical engineering Lingchong You
and his colleagues show that their engineered gene circuit functions as a
timing mechanism, triggering a predictable ring growth pattern that adjusts to
the size of its environment.

The unexpected result provides a potential explanation for how organs such as
the heart and lungs know when to stop growing and runs counter to established
theories, one of which dates back to computer pioneer Alan Turing. The finding
also lays a foundation for engineering patterned bacteria as a biological
scaffold for new materials such as metallic films, which have potential
applications in the energy field.

“Everywhere you look in nature there are patterns, many of them very beautiful
and even inspirational,” said You. “Our work adds another dimension to the
general principles of pattern formation.”

Turing's ideas guided theories of pattern formation in biology for decades. He
imagined biological patterns arose from the interaction of chemicals he termed
“morphogens” that initiated and directed patterns by triggering on- or off-
switches, depending on their concentration in a particular location. In a
theoretical treatise published in 1952, Turing used math to show how these
morphogens could move in space, revealing patterns that mimic those seen in
animal skins and leaf shapes.

But like persistent myths, theories can also become entrenched. You and his
colleagues became puzzled when a synthetic gene circuit they built to test
Turing’s model didn’t create the growth pattern they were expecting.

Using molecular biology techniques, he and his colleagues had programmed the
common laboratory bacterium E. coli to produce two molecules. One served as
the “on” switch that spreads throughout the growing colony. The other served
as the “off” switch that would be triggered by an increasing concentration of
the “on” signal.

The researchers also engineered the bacteria to produce fluorescent colors so
they could watch patterns form. But as the colonies grew, the emerging
patterns didn’t behave as predicted. They were much smaller than the research
team expected based on how fast the “on” signal should diffuse.

To solve the mystery, the scientists added a high concentration of the “on”
signal to the growth chamber, flooding the bacteria with the signal. The
bacteria formed the same distinctive ring pattern over the same time, which
showed they weren't responding to changes in the concentration of the "on"
signal in space.

Instead, the researchers reasoned that the “on” signal served as a timing cue.
The research team then created a mathematical model of the timing mechanism
and predicted how the cells would respond to changes in the size of their
growth chamber.

“By serving as a timing cue, the morphogen ‘on’ signal enables the system to
sense and respond to the size of the environment,” said You. “The larger the
area, the longer it takes for the morphogen to accumulate to a high enough
concentration to trigger pattern formation. As such, a larger area will lead
to a larger ring pattern.”

Follow-up experiments confirmed the model, and provided a simple example of
how growing organs may be able to sense the size of their environment -- and
when it’s time to stop growing -- potentially solving a persistent mystery in
developmental biology.

You and his colleagues plan to use the artificial gene circuit to create more
complex biological patterns, both to further explore general principles of
pattern formation and to serve as scaffolds for making new materials, such as
thin metal films for energy applications.

The lead authors for this work are Stephen Payne and Bochong Li from Duke’s
Department of Biomedical Engineering. In addition, Yangxiaolu Cao, also from
the Department of Biomedical Engineering, as well as David Schaeffer and Marc
D. Ryser of Duke’s Department of Mathematics, contributed to the work.

The research was supported by the Office of Naval Research (N00014-12-1-0631),
the National Institutes of Health (1R01- GM098642; R01-GM096190-02), a DuPont
Young Professorship, a David and Lucile Packard Fellowship, and a National
Science Foundation CAREER award to You (CBET-0953202), as well as NIH graduate
fellowship funding to Payne.

_Video: Growth of a bacterial colony (green) over about 60 hours. The blue
"on" signal spreads outward from the center; red represents the "off" signal
triggered over time. Credit: Stephen Payne, Pratt School of Engineering,
Duke._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

