

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# AI May Offer a Better Way to ID Drug-Resistant Superbugs

August 3, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Machine learning algorithm uses high-temporal-resolution growth curves to
identify pathogens with 98% accuracy and predict antibiotic resistance just as
well as genetic-based methods

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have shown that different strains of
the same bacterial pathogen can be distinguished by a machine learning
analysis of their growth dynamics alone, which can then also accurately
predict other traits such as resistance to antibiotics. The demonstration
could point to methods for identifying diseases and predicting their behaviors
that are faster, simpler, less expensive and more accurate than current
standard techniques.

The results appear online on August 3 in the Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences.

For most of the history of microbiology, bacteria identification has relied on
growing cultures and analyzing the physical traits and behaviors of the
resulting bacterial colony. It wasn’t until recently that scientists could
simply run a genetic test.

Genetic sequencing, however, isn’t universally available and can often take a
long time. And even with the ability to sequence entire genomes, it can be
difficult to tie specific genetic variations to different behaviors in the
real world.

For example, even though researchers know the genetic mutations that help
shield/protect bacteria from beta-lactam antibiotics—the most commonly used
antibiotic in the world—sometimes the DNA isn’t the whole story. While a
single resistant bacteria usually can’t survive a dose of antibiotics on its
own, large populations often can.

Lingchong You, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke, and his graduate
student, Carolyn Zhang, wondered if a new twist on older methods might work
better. Maybe they could amplify one specific physical characteristic and use
it to not only identify the pathogen, but to make an educated guess about
other traits such as antibiotic resistance.

“We thought that the slight variance in the genes between strains of bacteria
might have a subtle effect on their metabolism,” You said. “But because
bacterial growth is exponential, that subtle effect could be amplified enough
for us to take advantage of it. To me, that notion is somewhat intuitive, but
I was surprised at how well it actually worked.”

How quickly a bacterial culture grows in a laboratory depends on the richness
of the media it is growing in and its chemical environment. But as the
population grows, the culture consumes nutrients and produces chemical
byproducts. Even if different strains start with the exact same environmental
conditions, subtle differences in how they grow and influence their
surroundings accumulate over time.

In the study, You and Zhang took more than 200 strains of bacterial pathogens,
most of which were variations of _E. coli_ , put them into identical growth
environments, and carefully measured their population density as it increased.
Because of their slight genetic differences, the cultures grew in fits and
starts, each possessing a unique temporal fluctuation pattern. The researchers
then fed the growth dynamics data into a machine learning program, which
taught itself to identify and match the growth profiles to the different
strains.

To their surprise, it worked really well.

“Using growth data from only one initial condition, the model was able to
identify a particular strain with more than 92 percent accuracy,” You said.
“And when we used four different starting environments instead of one, that
accuracy rose to about 98 percent.”

Taking this idea one step further, You and Zhang then looked to see if they
could use growth dynamic profiles to predict another phenotype—antibiotic
resistance.

The researchers once again loaded a machine learning program with the growth
dynamic profiles from all but one of the various strains, along with data
about their resilience to four different antibiotics. They then tested to see
if the resulting model could predict the final strain’s antibiotic resistances
from its growth profile. To bulk up their dataset, they repeated this process
for all of the other strains.

The results showed that the growth dynamic profile alone could successfully
predict a strain’s resistance to antibiotics 60 to 75 percent of the time.

“This is actually on par or better than some of the current techniques in the
literature, including many that use genetic sequencing data,” said You. “And
this was just a proof of principle. We believe that with higher-resolution
data of the growth dynamics, we could do an even better job in the long term.”

The researchers also looked to see if the strains exhibiting similar growth
curves also had similar genetic profiles. As it turns out, the two are
completely uncorrelated, demonstrating once again how difficult it can be to
map cellular traits and behaviors to specific stretches of DNA.

Moving forward, You plans to optimize the growth curve procedure to reduce the
time it takes to identify a strain from 2 to 3 days to perhaps 12 hours. He’s
also planning on using high-definition cameras to see if mapping how bacterial
colonies grow in space in a Petri dish can help make the process even more
accurate.

This research was conducted in collaboration with groups of Deverick J.
Anderson, Joshua T. Thaden and Vance G. Fowler from the Duke University School
of Medicine, and Minfeng Xiao from BGI Genomics.

This research was partially supported by the National Institutes of Health
(LY, R01GM098642, R01GM110494, 1A1125604), the Army Research Office (LY,
W911NF-14-1-0490), the David and Lucile Packard Foundation, the Shenzhen
Peacock Team Plan grant (MX, No. KQTD2015033117210153), the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (DJA, U54CK000164), AHRQ (DJA, R01-HS23821),
NIH (VGF, R01-AI068804), and the National Science Foundation’s Graduate
Research Fellowship (CZ, HRM).

“Temporal encoding of bacterial identity and traits in growth dynamics.”
Carolyn Zhang, Wenchen Song, Helena R. Ma, Xiao Peng, Deverick J. Anderson,
Vance G. Fowler Jr, Joshua T. Thaden, Minfeng Xiao, and Lingchong You. PNAS,
2020. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2008807117

## Related News

December 05, 2018

### Distinguishing Resistance from Resilience to Prolong Antibiotic Potency

November 22, 2017

### Managing Antibiotics Not Enough to Reverse Resistance

April 11, 2016

### Antibiotics Don't Promote Swapping of Resistance Genes

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

