

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Guiding Vibration Simulations for Turbines

May 20, 2019

The Duke-led GUIde Consortium develops faster, more accurate simulations of
turbine blade vibrations to help the industry engineer safer jet turbines with
lower maintenance costs

If you’ve ever felt frustrated while staring at a little spinning pinwheel
while a computer finishes a task, try waiting for six weeks.

That’s the situation aeronautical engineers often find themselves in when
designing new turbine. With multiple fan blades spinning thousands of times
per minute and air flows moving faster than the speed of sound, accurately
modeling the complex machine is a daunting challenge.

Virtually all commercial aircraft use turbine engines and 90 percent of the
world’s electricity is produced by turbines. In the early 1990s, the world’s
leading turbine manufacturers, U. S. Air Force and NASA came together with
academic experts and a software company to form the GUIde Consortium to
address the “grand challenges” in turbomachinery aeromechanics. Now in its
sixth iteration, the program works to cut the time the pinwheel spins from
weeks to days at the same time increasing the simulation’s accuracy.

“The GUIde Consortium funds pre-competitive research to meet the needs for the
design methods of it’s members,” said Robert Kielb, director of the GUIde
Consortium and professor of the practice of mechanical engineering and
materials science at Duke University, which has served as the program’s
leading institution since 2008. “For the past six years, we’ve focused on
forced response of an embedded compressor, which dictates how interacting
pressure waves force a turbojet’s fan blades to vibrate.”

These vibrations are both a safety and a cost issue. If the blades vibrate too
much, they can be damaged over time and require costly maintenance. Or worse,
they can break and cause engine failure.

Turbojet engineering companies each have their own in-house software to design
new engines, but they rely on research conducted by the GUIde Consortium to
make sure their software is accurate. They also purchase packages and programs
from ANSYS, the one software company in the GUIde Consortium, which works with
researchers in the group to test and improve their products.

In the past year, Duke researchers led by Shreyas Hegde, a PhD student in
Kielb’s laboratory, addressed several key questions in modeling software
produced by ANSYS.

“The industry’s models typically do a complete 360-degree analysis to figure
out how each row of fan blades will cause its neighbors to vibrate,” said
Hegde. “We’re trying to help simplify these simulations without losing any
accuracy in the results.”

A turbojet fan consists of rows of blades that alternate between stationary
“stators” and rotating “rotors.” Even though a large engine has several sets
of each, simulations used in the design stage typically only model one rotor
sandwiched between two stators.

In one recent study, Kielb, Hegde and their colleagues looked to see what
effects adding another downstream rotor has on the simulation. They found that
the pressure waves coursing through the system often reflect back from this
stage and affect the vibration of the fan blades found earlier in the engine.

“That’s not the best news for companies designing turbojets, because the more
complicated the model becomes, the longer and more difficult to interpret the
results,” said Kielb. “But if you didn’t include that extra rotor, you might
reject a design even though interactions effects from that rotor would reduce
the forced vibration enough to make it work just fine. Or the opposite can
happen, where adding the rotor to the analysis shows that the vibration
amplitude will actually be higher.”

Simulations are easier to complete if each of the rotors and stators have a
number of fan blades with a common denominator. For example, if the standard
stator-rotor-stator simulation described above contained fan blades numbering
44-33-44—the common denominator being 11—it could be simplified to only 4-3-4,
but still be perfectly accurate.

In non-uniform models, one of these numbers is slightly off. In this example,
the number of fan blades might change to 44-33-48. Even slight differences
such as this has long been a thorn in the industry’s side when trying to
simulate a design’s performance.

In another recent tweak to the software, ANSYS made it possible to complete
shortened simulations of these non-uniform models, and turned to Duke to check
their work.

“We put together a whole 360-degree model that included all the complexities
you could think of,” said Kielb. “That produced a more accurate representation
of the new ANSYS software’s abilities and limitations.”

The group is finding that in most cases the ANSYS software works well, but in
some cases, it doesn’t work very well, and the companies need to know which
cases are which.

And so does ANSYS. Thanks to the work done at Duke, the software company can
discover problems with their methods and fix them, which helps the entire
turbine industry.

“The GUIde Consortium has been going on for the better part of two decades,
and it’s turned out to be a really mutually beneficial arrangement for
everyone involved,” said Kielb. “We’re going to spend another two years making
these forced vibration simulations work as well as we can, and then the
consortium will move on to other challenges.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

