

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Heart Rate Measurements of Wearable Monitors Vary by Activity, Not Skin
Color

February 10, 2020

Testing finds skin tones don’t alter the accuracy of heart rate monitors on
smart watches and fitness trackers, but activities affect readings

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated that while different
wearable technologies, like smart watches and fitness trackers, can accurately
measure heart rate across a variety of skin tones, the accuracy between
devices begins to vary wildly when they measure heart rate during different
types of everyday activities.

As wearable technologies are increasingly used to monitor patients’ health and
collect digital biomarkers for clinical research and health care, this study
highlights the need to better understand their accuracy and determine how
measurement errors may affect research conclusions and inform medical
decisions, according to the researchers.

The study results appear online on February 10 in the journal NPJ Digital
Medicine.

“We started this study because we were seeing some evidence, both in research
and anecdotally, that indicated that wearable devices weren’t working as well
for people with darker skin tones,” said Jessilyn Dunn, an assistant professor
of biomedical engineering at Duke. “People would compare a reading on a chest
strap to their smart watch and get different heart rate values. The companies
that manufacture these devices don’t put out any metrics about how well they
work across skin tones, so we wanted to collect evidence about how well they
work and identify potential circumstances where they may not work well.”

The study enlisted a group of 53 individuals with different skin tones to test
the six different devices. To establish an accurate baseline, each participant
wore an electrocardiogram (ECG) patch to measure their true heart rate during
each activity.

Fitness trackers currently measure heart rate using a process called
photoplethysmography, or PPG. This involves shining a specific wavelength of
light, which usually appears green, from a pulse oximeter sensor on the
underside of the device where it touches the skin on the wrist. As the light
illuminates the tissue, the pulse oximeter measures changes in light
absorption and the device then uses this data to generate a heart rate
measurement.

“Previous research demonstrated that inaccurate PPG heart rate measurements
occur up to 15 percent more frequently in dark skin as compared to light
skin,” says Dunn. “That’s because darker skin has a higher melanin content,
and melanin absorbs the wavelength of light that PPG uses.”

As a second focus of the study, Dunn and her team measured how the devices
performed during various types of activity. “There is evidence that people who
work at their desk typing all day tend to have worse readings than people who
have more stable wrist motion,” Dunn said. “We knew that these devices suffer
from motion artifact issues, but it wasn’t clear to what extent.”

Dunn and her lab tested both research-grade and commercial-grade wearable
devices to track how diverse skin types, user activity and device type
affected the accuracy of heart rate measurements. They tested commercial
devices including the Apple Watch 4, Fitbit Charge 2, Garmin Vivosmart 3 and
Xiaomi Midband, and research devices including the Empatica E4 and the
Biovotion.

In the first round of the experiment, participants wore the Empatica on one
wrist and the Apple Watch on the other. They first sat still to measure their
baseline heart rate for four minutes before practicing paced deep breathing
for one minute. Then they walked for five minutes before returning to a seated
rest station for two minutes. Finally, they performed a typing task for one
minute. In the second round, the participants repeated these steps while
wearing the Fitbit, and in the third round they wore the Garmin, the Xiaomi
and the Biovotion.

“Although we did not find statistically significant differences in wearable HR
measurement accuracy across skin tones, it doesn't invalidate past concerns
with technology equity,” said graduate student Brinnae Bent, the first author
on this study. “Wearable device software is updated frequently and it appears
previous concerns have been addressed in current software versions.”

Although the heart rate measurements were more accurate at rest than during
activity, each tested device reported a higher heart rate than the ECG during
physical activity across all skin tones. The team also found that the
commercial devices were more accurate at measuring heart rate than the
research devices. Maintaining the sensor’s contact with skin can also improve
device performance, as the sensor can wiggle around and catch motion artifacts
if it’s too loose.

Overall, the Apple Watch demonstrated the most accurate measurements of all
tested devices, followed by the Garmin.

“We found that there was a bigger drop in accuracy during activities that
involved wrist motion that could introduce motion artifacts, like typing, and
we saw a drop in accuracy during deep breathing, which could indicate the
devices locking onto cyclic behavior, like breathing, rather than heart rate,”
said Dunn. “We were initially surprised that the commercial devices were more
accurate, but they also have huge user bases, so they’re able to use lots of
data to clean up their signals and improve their algorithms. The research
wearables are just using raw data, which is important for researchers and
clinicians to be aware of.”

The study points the way to improving devices for clinical and research use,
she added.

“We want to use these devices to measure digital biomarkers and predict
disease outcomes, so if there are disparities in how these devices work we
need to identify them,” said Dunn.

“We’ve shown that we have equivalent-enough accuracy that we’re not worried
that there is a disparity due to skin tone in these devices, but we’re hoping
this puts out the call to companies that make wearables to share more
information about how they evaluate the devices so that disparities can be
more readily identified and corrected,” Dunn said.

Brinnae Bent was funded by the Duke FORGE Fellowship, and Jessilyn Dunn is
supported by the Whitehead Scholar designation.

CITATION: “Investigating Sources of Inaccuracy in Wearable Optical Heart Rate
Sensors,” Brinnae Brent, Benjamin A. Goldstein, Warren A. Kibbe, Jessilyn
Dunn. npj Digital Medicine, 2020. DOI 10.1038/s41746-020-0226-6

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

