

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Heat-Proof Chaotic Carbides Could Revolutionize Aerospace Technology

October 11, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Super-hard, high-temperature, “high-entropy” carbides demonstrate plasmonic
properties useful for a wide range of aerospace applications

A group of scientists led by Duke University have engineered a new class of
materials capable of producing tunable plasmonic properties while withstanding
incredibly high temperatures.

Plasmonics is a technology that essentially traps the energy of light within
groups of electrons oscillating together on a metallic surface. This creates a
powerful electromagnetic field that interacts with incoming light, allowing
devices to absorb, emit or otherwise control specific frequencies across much
of the electromagnetic spectrum.

The new materials are hard enough to stir molten steel and can withstand
temperatures above 7,000 degrees Fahrenheit – about the same temperatures
found just a few hundred miles above the surface of the sun. Coupled with
their newly discovered plasmonic abilities, the carbides could achieve
improved communications and thermal regulation in technologies including
satellites and hypersonic aircraft.

The research appears online October 11 in the open access journal Nature
Communications.

“The standard metals used in plasmonics research, such as gold, silver and
copper, melt at relatively low temperatures and need protection from the
elements,” said Arrigo Calzolari, a researcher at the Istituto Nanoscienze of
Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche in Modena, Italy “That means they can’t be
used in rockets, satellites or other aerospace applications. But these new
materials we are developing open a completely new working arena because they
can create plasmonic effects at incredibly high temperatures.”

The abilities come from a class of disordered ceramics discovered in 2018 by
Stefano Curtarolo, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science
at Duke, called “high-entropy” carbides. Jettisoning the reliance on the
crystalline structures and bonds that keep traditional materials together,
these high-entropy carbides rely on a combination of many disorderly elements
of various sizes to enhance stability. While a pile of baseballs won’t stand
on its own, a pile of baseballs, shoes, bats, hats and gloves just might
support a resting baseball player.

> “After running the recipe ideas through the disorder models and calculations
> we’ve been developing, we discovered that they do have plasmonic properties,
> and that we can tune them by tweaking the recipes.”
>
> stefano curtarolo

The original group of high-entropy materials were made of carbon and five
different metallic elements, technically making them a class of carbides.
Since then, Curtarolo has secured a $7.5 million grant through the US
Department of Defense’s Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative
(MURI) competition to develop a suite of AI-materials tools capable of
designing similar materials with tailored properties on demand.

Calzolari knew about these materials and the project Curtarolo was leading. He
also knew that tantalum carbide (a parent yet simpler system) is extremely
durable and exhibits plasmonic abilities in the visible spectrum. But the
material can’t be tuned to different frequencies of light outside of its
natural range, limiting its usefulness in real-world applications. Putting two
and two together, Calzolari and Curtarolo joined forces on a hunch that
certain recipes for high-entropy carbides – especially those containing
tantalum – could demonstrate tunable plasmonic properties across a wide
spectrum.

Less than six months later, they were proven right.

“Arrigo came to me to make sure these carbide mixtures would work and that
they would have plasmonic properties,” Curtarolo said. “After running the
recipe ideas through the disorder models and calculations we’ve been
developing, we discovered that they do have plasmonic properties, and that we
can tune them by tweaking the recipes.”

In the paper, the researchers’ models show that 14 different high-entropy
recipes demonstrate plasmonic properties across the near-infrared and visible
spectrum of light, making them good candidates for optical and
telecommunication applications. They also worked with Douglas Wolfe, professor
of materials science and engineering and the metals, ceramics, coating
processing department head for the applied research laboratory at Penn State,
to prove their theory experimentally.

As a member of the MURI project led by Curtarolo, Wolfe was already familiar
with high-entropy carbides. He happened to have a sample of one of the recipes
in question, which helped the group to quickly demonstrate the plasmonic
properties of HfTa4C5 and showed that they matched well with their
computational models.

> “These materials bring together plasmonics, hardness, stability and high
> temperatures into a single material. And they can be tailored to specific
> applications, which isn’t possible using standard materials because you
> can’t change properties defined by nature.”
>
> stefano curtarolo

The paper lays out different compositions that work better or worse than each
other in various frequency ranges. The researchers plan to continue to create
new recipes and test them for potential use in a wide range of applications,
such as antennas, light and heat manipulation, and many more on any device
that is subjected to ultra-high temperatures.

“These materials bring together plasmonics, hardness, stability and high
temperatures into a single material,” Curtarolo said. “And they can be
tailored to specific applications, which isn’t possible using standard
materials because you can’t change properties defined by nature.”

This work is supported by the Office of Naval Research (N00014-21-1-2132,
N00014- 20-1-2525, N00014-20-1-2299).

CITATION: “Plasmonic High-entropy Carbides,” Arrigo Calzolari, Corey Oses,
Cormac Toher, Marco Esters, Xiomara Campilongo, Sergei P. Stepanoff, Douglas
E. Wolfe, and Stefano Curtarolo. Nature Communications, Oct. 11, 2022. DOI:
10.1038/s41467-022-33497-1

Online - https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-022-33497-1

## Related News

February 24, 2021

### Strengthened by Chaos, New Super-Hard Materials Will Stir Steel Together

November 26, 2018

### Disordered Materials Could Be Hardest, Most Heat-Tolerant Ever

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

