

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# How Dividing Cells End Up the Same Size

June 4, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Duke study finds that initial cell size determines growth before splitting,
contradicting earlier studies

There aren’t any giants or midgets when it comes to the cells in your body,
and now Duke University scientists think they know why.

A new study appearing June 3 in Nature shows that a cell’s initial size
determines how much it will grow before it splits into two.

This finding goes against recent publications suggesting cells always add the
same amount of mass, with some random fluctuations, before beginning division.

“It’s like students going through college,” said Lingchong You, the Paul
Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of Engineering in the Department of
Biomedical Engineering and the Center for Genomic and Computational Biology at
Duke. “If they’re not prepared, they take five or six years to graduate rather
than taking more classes and overburdening themselves.”

It all began with unexplainable oscillations. The team was looking at how
genes on circular pieces of DNA called plasmids segregate when cells divide by
tagging the genes with different fluorescent colors.

“We noticed oscillations in the expression of these colors in about 30 percent
of the cells,” You said. “And that’s weird because we knew the genes involved
aren’t regulated, so this was incredibly baffling to us. We were very
surprised.”

The project was initiated by two former Duke graduate students, Yu Tanouchi
and Anand Pai, now postdoctoral scientists at Stanford University and UC-San
Francisco, respectively. The team was using a “mother machine,” invented by
Suckjoon Jun at UC-San Diego, to watch the division patterns of individual
cells over many generations.

The device places individual cells—in this case _E. coli_ bacteria—at the
closed end of very small tubes. As each trapped cell grows and divides, its
daughter cells are forced up the tube, where they are eventually swept away by
a stream of nutrients.

The setup allows researchers to watch hundreds of cells go through divisions
over dozens of generations and was key in seeing the baffling oscillations.

“Most studies take the average of many cells or many generations, which would
make it impossible to see these oscillations,” explained You. “That’s why the
single-cell analysis was critical, because these oscillations occur over many
cell cycles with varying periods.”

While trying to trace the origin of the genetic oscillations, You and his team
were even more surprised to discover that the initial cell size also
oscillated over multiple generations. After spending months trying to find the
reason for the oscillations, Yu looked at correlations of different growth
metrics like cell size at division, speed of growth and time to division.

And the results were a strikingly simple linear relationship, revealing that a
cell’s initial size determines how much biomass it would add before beginning
cell division.

You and his colleagues then checked their findings against computer models. By
using the same linear relationships and throwing in random fluctuations, they
were able to recreate the oscillations in size in 30 to 40 percent of their
virtual cell lines, just like in their experimental data.

Although the group does not know how the cells determine how long to grow
based on their initial size, the computer models fit their experimental data
precisely. But whether or not others in their field will be convinced is yet
to be seen.

“During the review period of our paper, there were two experimental papers
published in high-impact journals providing evidence for the ‘adder model’ (or
the ‘incremental model’), which is that when cells divide, they add a constant
biomass on average,” said You. “But the data are the data, and in our data we
don’t see this. The two models are very similar, but they have completely
different implications for how cells maintain their uniform size. It will be
interesting to see how people respond to our paper.”

Also helping in the study were Heungwon Park, a postdoc in Nicolas Buchler’s
lab in the Department of Biology at Duke, and postdoc Shuqiang Huang and
former graduate student Rumen Stamatov from the You lab.

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation, the National
Institutes of Health (R01GM098642, R01GM110494, DP2 OD008654-01), DuPont, the
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency (DARPA-BAA-11-66) and the Burroughs Wellcome Fund (BWF 1005769.01).

###

“A noisy linear map underlies oscillations in cell size and gene expression in
bacteria.” Yu Tanouchi, Anand Pai, Heungwon Park, Shuqiang Huang, Rumen
Stamatov, Nicolas E. Buchler, Lingchong You. Nature, 2015. DOI:
10.1038/nature14562

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

