

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# How to Judge an AI Art Competition

March 21, 2019 | by Miranda Volborth

It’s another case where an interdisciplinary approach works best

Some of the 24 entries in Duke University’s first +DataScience AI for Art
Competition bore the indelible painterly fingerprints of the masters: Picasso,
Cezanne.

Some were strange to the point of eliciting unease alongside excitement. In
one, a whale floated through a sea of irises; Van Gogh could have dreamed it.
There were renderings of animals, which appeared realistic from afar, only to
remain unresolved as one approached—their features smeared and squashed
together like bread dough.

“Some of the images are quite comfortable, an impression made explicit by
having things that are creepy in the same piece, or a piece right beside it,”
said Scott Lindroth, vice provost for the arts for Duke and one of the event’s
judges. “In a sense it shows the scope of possibilities the entrants were able
to explore. I found that really gorgeous.”

> How to actually judge that incredibly varied field of entries, and pull a
> winner from the spectrum?

But how to actually judge that incredibly varied field of entries, and pull a
winner from the spectrum?

“We were really looking for pieces that were very pleasing and also
technically competent, which is certainly a tough feat to pull off in this
space,” said Matthew Kenney, another judge. Kenney is an IT analyst at Duke
who also teaches courses in interactive graphics for the university, and makes
his own art using AI. He works with generative adversarial networks, or GANs,
the kind of algorithm used to create works like those entered in the
competition, and other AI applications like natural language processing, image
recognition and deep learning. In other words, he was uniquely qualified to
evaluate what was under the hood of each entry.

Creating AI art is challenging on many levels, said Kenney. Artists must fight
“mode collapse,” the algorithm’s tendency to spit out the same image every
time it processes a set of data.

Another challenge is the low level of certainty that the creator can expect
from the end results. “Artistically, you maybe don’t have a strong sense of
what is going to come out until you’ve trained the network,” said Kenney. “You
can have a measure of certainty from the images you’re training it on, but at
the end of the day you really don’t know how it will look until after the
fact, which is certainly challenging but also exciting.” He said that with his
own work, he might iterate eight or nine times before arriving at his desired
results.

In judging Duke’s AI for Art Competition, Kenney said, each panelist entered
into deliberations with a piece they had initially gravitated toward. After a
series of discussions led by the judges with expertise in the arts, though, a
consensus on the three strongest works emerged. It was only at that point that
two electrical and computer engineering faculty members—Robert Calderbank,
director of the Rhodes information initiative at Duke (iiD), and Lawrence
Carin, vice provost for research and director of +DS—performed what Calderbank
called “due diligence” to check the creators’ code.

“We don’t, as a university, choose to invest in computer science because it’s
the most important subject,” said Calderbank, who is a professor of computer
science and mathematics as well as engineering. “By investing in computer
science and a computing way of thinking, we actually make all of the
disciplines a little more successful.”

> “By investing in computer science and a computing way of thinking, we
> actually make all of the disciplines a little more successful.”
>
> Robert Calderbank, Director, Rhodes information initiative at Duke

He pointed to iiD’s Data+ program as an example of how advanced computing
tools and methods provide support to other fields. “Every summer in Data+ we
have projects where students in the humanities and students in the hard
sciences discover each other,” said Calderbank. “Humanities students discover
tools that can take their intuition further, and scientists discover
interesting new modes of questioning they’ve never considered before. There’s
a kind of magic to that.”

Zach Monge, a PhD student of psychology and neuroscience, claimed the $5000
prize for first place at the competition’s reception at the Rubinstein Arts
Center on Wednesday evening, and there was certainly magic in his work. His
entry, titled “Abstract Forests,” was somehow evocative of both smoke and
water, and ablaze with the colors of autumn. He produced the images using
cycle GANs that transformed selected photographs of forests into abstract
paintings, and back again.

“It’s creating a reconstruction,” said Monge. “This is a really big
opportunity for people who are interested in art and are willing to learn the
code. We’ll see what happens in the next few years.”

Read More about the Competition

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

