

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Huang Elected to the National Academy of Inventors

December 8, 2020

Organization recognizes academic inventors for outstanding inventions that
impact society

Tony Jun Huang, the William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science, has been elected to the 2020 class of
fellow of the National Academy of Inventors (NAI).

Founded in 2010, the NAI recognizes academic inventors for their spirit of
innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that have made a
tangible impact on the quality of life, economic development and welfare of
society. The announcement brings the number of NAI Fellows in the Pratt School
of Engineering to 10. Professors Kathryn Nightingale and Blake Wilson were
elected in 2019; Nimmi Ramanujam, Joseph Izatt and Tuan Vo-Dinh were elected
in 2017; David R. Smith and Jennifer West in 2016, and Robert Calderbank and
Ashutosh Chilkoti in 2014.

Huang is a pioneer of "acoustic tweezers" technology, which uses sound waves
to separate and manipulate micro/nano particles within liquid samples to
address challenges in biological studies, medical diagnostics and
therapeutics. Huang's inventions on acoustic tweezers enable precise,
dexterous, biocompatible manipulation of bioparticles across a wide range of
length scales, from nanometers to centimeters, in complex fluids such as
aqueous solutions, blood and sputum.

For example, his group has developed automated point-of-care devices for the
isolation of exosomes, nanosized extracellular vesicles that have been
identified as a potentially transformative circulating biomarker for the
diagnosis and prognosis of multiple diseases including cancer, Parkinson's
disease, Alzheimer's disease and cardiovascular diseases. He has also proven
that his acoustic tweezers technology can achieve an exosome separation yield
roughly 16 times higher than gold-standard technologies while being more than
100 times faster. With these advantages, his inventions have the potential to
significantly exceed current industry standards and address many unmet needs
in biology and medicine.

Since joining Duke's faculty in 2016, Huang has developed a wide array of
technologies in this vein. For example, he is pursuing lab-on-a-chip
technology that can manipulate individual droplets by having them ride
soundwaves in oil and various transducer configurations that can concentrate
and separate particles within Petri dishes.

Under Huang's mentorship, many of his PhD students and postdocs have become
prolific inventors themselves. Sixteen have become tenured or tenure-track
faculty members at research universities such as the University of Texas,
Austin, University of Colorado, Boulder, Indiana University, University of
Iowa, West Virginia University, Mississippi State University, ETH Zurich
(Switzerland), and University of Birmingham (UK). After starting their
independent careers, two of his former doctoral students have been selected to
receive the NIH Director's New Innovator Award.

"I am extremely honored and humbled." said Huang, "During my career, I have
had the privilege to work with the most brilliant, devoted, terrific and
generous mentors, colleagues, students and postdocs. They have helped and
inspired me tremendously while enabling my career. I think that the only way
for me to return the favor is to work harder to push these technologies to
directly benefit many patients and help provide better disease diagnosis,
medical treatment and health care to the world."

Other recent award for Huang include the 2017 Analytical Chemistry Young
Innovator Award from the American Chemical Society (ACS), the 2019 Van C. Mow
Medal from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), and the 2019
Technical Achievement Award from the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology
Society (EMBS). Huang was also elected as a fellow of the following six
professional societies: the American Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS), the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering
(AIMBE), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the Institute of Physics (IoP),
and the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC).

NAI Fellows will be inducted into the organization at the 10th Anniversary
Annual Meeting event in Tampa, Florida, June 7-9, 2021.

## Related News

September 10, 2020

### Sound Waves Replace Human Hands in Petri Dish Experiments

December 03, 2019

### Nightingale, Wilson Elected Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors

July 26, 2018

### Soundwave-Surfing Droplets Leave No Traces Behind

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

