

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Huettel Named 2021 ASEE ECE Distinguished Educator

May 18, 2021

Professor of the Practice Lisa G. Huettel is recognized for reimagining the
Duke ECE student experience

Lisa G. Huettel, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of the Practice at
Duke Engineering, has won the 2021 American Society for Engineering Education
(ASEE) ECE Distinguished Educator Award. The award is presented annually to an
individual who has “shown evidence of vision and contribution to ECE
education.”

Huettel has been instrumental to Duke Engineering’s efforts over the last
several years to reimagine its signature undergraduate curriculum and student
experience. She secured nearly $3 million in funding for development of
introductory courses, signal processing courses and contextual learning tied
to the NAE Grand Challenges program, and retooled laboratory experiences for a
range of ECE courses.

Huettel is the recipient of numerous awards recognizing her accomplishments as
an engineering educator, including the American Society for Engineering
Education Southeastern Section (ASEE SE) Outstanding Teaching Award in 2021
and the IEEE Undergraduate Teaching Award–an international award given yearly
to honor a single individual’s inspirational teaching of undergraduate
students in IEEE’s fields of interest–in 2019. Huettel also won the IEEE Mac
Van Valkenburg Early Career Teaching Award in 2006. She currently serves as
associate chair of Duke ECE and directs its undergraduate studies program, in
addition to co-chairing the Frontiers in Education Technical Program Committee
and recently completing two terms on the IEEE Education Society Board of
Governors.

“At Duke ECE, we want to engage students from the very beginning, and Dr.
Huettel has shown enormous facility in showing students how their unique
interests intersect with the field,” said Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the John
Cocke Distinguished Professor and chair of ECE. “The students emerge from
their introductory courses with the enthusiasm and confidence needed to
succeed at advanced engineering challenges, both at Duke and in the real
world. There is no better testament to Dr. Huettel’s excellence as an
educator.”

More News from Duke ECE

## Related News

November 26, 2018

### Duke Engineering Professor Wins International Teaching Award

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

