

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# IBIEM Holds Inaugural Symposium on Microbiome Dynamics and Engineering

March 14, 2017

Emerging program's first symposium attracts participants from each corner of
the Research Triangle

An emerging program designed to develop the growing field of bioinformatics
held its first symposium at Duke March 10, attracting 100 participants from
disparate fields from each corner of the Research Triangle.

Integrative Bioinformatics for Investigating and Engineering Microbiomes
(IBIEM) was established in late 2015 to bring together scientists with an
interest in microbiome research. A partnership between North Carolina A&T
State University and Duke University, the program is supported by a $3 million
National Science Foundation Research Trainee grant.

The curriculum is designed to teach graduate students how to conduct
bioinformatics research by partnering across disciplines. Students with a
background in the physical sciences learn about statistics and handling data,
while those coming from a mathematical background are exposed to fieldwork and
bench experiments.

IBIEM’s inaugural symposium, “Frontiers in Microbiome Dynamics and
Engineering,” featured speakers from Duke, North Carolina A&T, the University
of North Carolina – Chapel Hill, and North Carolina State University, as well
as a student poster session at lunch. Triangle-based industry representatives
working in the field also attended.

“Human health is a large and important part of research related to
microbiomes,” said Claudia Gunsch, director of IBIEM, with a nod to the
symposium’s cosponsor MEDx, a program designed to enhance existing ties and
foster new interdisciplinary collaborations between Duke’s School of Medicine
and Pratt School of Engineering. “But there’s so much more to the field than
human health. We’re trying to bring people together to draw attention to
different research opportunities happening in bioinformatics and spark new
collaborations.”

Gunsch led off the symposium by talking about her work to engineer microbiomes
to transform environmental contaminants into benign products. This involves
getting bacteria with useful genes to transfer them to other species already
thriving in the target habitat, and finding ways to stimulate their activity
to increase their rates of bioremediation.

Three other speakers from Duke Engineering also joined the lineup. Zhixia Ye,
a postdoctoral student in the laboratory of Michael Lynch, spoke about her
research on genetically optimizing the growth and activities of microbes to
produce commercial products. Lingchong You described his work to understand
how antibiotics affect the growth rate of pathogens to better tailor dosing
schedules. And Mark Borsuk described his analytical work using Bayesian
networks to find and define relationships between variables in a system that
might otherwise be hidden.

The two keynote speakers featured the University of North Carolina – Chapel
Hill’s Jeff Dangl, who spoke about bacteria communities in plants and how they
affect their immune systems, and North Carolina State University’s Jennifer
Kuzma, who presented her work on the social and policy systems involved in
these lines of emerging research.

“I think that sometimes we get so stuck in our respective niches that we
forget how our work can be applied across disciplines,” said IBIEM trainee
Savannah Volkoff, a second-year PhD student working in Gunsch’s laboratory on
the bioremediation of common contaminants found in sediments and soils. “IBIEM
has provided a space for students in different fields to collaborate and
conduct better research. I know that interacting with a statistician twice a
week has really helped me learn how to analyze my data.”

IBIEM is now recruiting its second class of IBIEM trainees for the 2017-18
academic year. For information, visit ibiem.pratt.duke.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

