

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Setting Boundaries Helps Machine Learning Find One-in-a-Trillion Solutions

July 27, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New “neural-adjoint” machine learning method can help researchers find optimal
solutions in extremely large design spaces such as dielectric metamaterials
for communications

Electrical engineers at Duke University have devised a new method for solving
difficult design problems with many potential solutions in a large design
space using machine learning. Dubbed the “neural-adjoint method,” the approach
successfully unearths an optimized design for an electromagnetic
communications device and could also be used for many other design challenges
ranging from biomedical imaging to holography.

The research appeared online February 24 in the journal Optics Express.

The quandary being addressed by the new machine learning method is solving
inverse problems, meaning researchers know the result they want but aren’t
sure the best way to achieve it. Within this type of challenge is a class
called ill-posed inverse problems, which means there’s an infinite number of
solutions with no guidance as to which might be the best.

“If given two numbers to add, you can get a direct and simple solution,”
explained Willie Padilla, professor of electrical and computer engineering at
Duke. “But if I say to give me two real numbers that add up to three, there’s
an infinite set of numbers that could be the answer with zero understanding if
the correct answer has been chosen. Flipping this simple task shows just how
challenging an ill-posed inverse problem can be.”

In the new research, the specific task Padilla is seeking to solve is finding
the best design for a dielectric (metal-free) metamaterial that produces a
specific electromagnetic response. Metamaterials are synthetic materials
composed of many individual engineered features, which together produce
properties not found in nature. They achieve this through their structure
rather than their chemistry. In Padilla’s dielectric metamaterial experiment,
he uses a large sheet built from individual two-by-two grids of silicon
cylinders resembling short, square Legos.

Calculating how the electromagnetic effects of an identical set of cylinders
interact with one another is a straightforward process that can be done by
commercial software. But working out the ill-posed inverse problem of which
geometry will best produce a desired set of properties is a much more
difficult proposition. Because each cylinder creates an electromagnetic field
that extends beyond its physical boundaries, they interact with one another in
an unpredictable, nonlinear way.

“If you try to build a desired response by combining the electromagnetic
effects produced by each individual cylinder, you’re going to get a
complicated map of many high and low peaks that is not simply a sum of their
parts,” said Professor Padilla. “It’s a huge geometrical parameter space and
you’re completely blind—there’s no indication of which way to go.”

Padilla’s new machine learning approach to navigating this complex design
space starts by training a deep neural network with 60,000 simulations of
different designs and the electromagnetic properties they produce. Even taking
14 geometric parameters into account, the machine learning algorithm learned
the function that connects the complex geometry with the electromagnetic
result.

At this point, the deep neural network could provide researchers with an
answer to an inverse question of finding a geometry that can produce a desired
response. But with 1.04 trillion potential solutions, it would take the neural
network over three years to find an answer.

“To my knowledge, this is the largest photonics problem of geometric space
that anyone has worked on,” said Padilla. “If you tried to solve it with a
normal computer algorithm, it’d take a 600million years. The deep neural
network only sampled 0.00000575% of the design space, but it learned the
function anyway.”

While an impressive feat, it is the second step to this process that is truly
novel. Although the researchers don’t know exactly what the function that the
deep neural network came up with actually looks like, they can use it to work
toward an optimal answer.

The new neural-adjoint method works by starting at 16,000 random points and
calculating how good of a solution each is. It then allows each to move toward
a better solution—a process called gradient descent. By repeating this process
multiple times, the algorithm works its way to locally optimized solutions.
Crucially, the researchers also set minimum and maximum boundaries based on
their knowledge of the space that the machine learning is accurate within,
which stopped the algorithm from getting too crazy with its solutions.

After 300 iterations, the program looks at the 16,000 locally optimal
solutions it found and chooses the best option. It also indicates if there
might be a boundary set on a parameter that might enable a better solution if
it were expanded.

“In doing this research, we saw all of our best solutions jammed up against
the maximum height we had set for the cylinders,” said Padilla. “We were
limiting ourselves but didn’t know it. So we extended the height, did even
more simulations, and indeed found a better solution.”

Applied to metamaterials, Padilla says this method could help develop flat
communications antennas for the sides of buildings that can quickly
reconfigure themselves to better reach nearby users. But he says it could also
be used in a wide range of applications that collect information from
electromagnetic waves. For example, interpreting x-rays or magnetic waves in
medical imaging devices or developing computer-generated holograms.

This research was funded by the U.S. Department of Energy (DESC0014372).

“Neural-adjoint method for the inverse design of all-dielectric metasurfaces.”
Yang Deng, Simiao Ren, Kebin Fan, Jordan M. Malof, and Willie J. Padilla.
Optics Express, Vol. 29, No. 5, 2021. DOI: 10.1364/OE.419138

## Related News

September 25, 2019

### Machine Learning Finds New Metamaterial Designs for Energy Harvesting

May 01, 2018

### Dielectric Metamaterial is Dynamically Tuned by Light

January 27, 2017

### Absorbing Electromagnetic Energy While Avoiding the Heat

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

