

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Inaugural Baquerizo Innovation Grant Recipients Named

March 13, 2018

$20,000 program supports Duke Engineering undergraduate entrepreneurship

By Jeni Baker

Duke undergraduate entepreneurs developing a device that uses air-filled tubes
to move patients safely and a smartphone device to diagnose eye diseases are
the inaugural recipients of the Baquerizo Innovation Grant (BIG).

Also, two student-founded company finalists – one working on a low-cost animal
tagging system for biology research and a second developing a device to
improve the health of coastal waters – will receive mentoring from Duke
Engineering’s entrepreneurship experts.

BIG is an annual $20,000 award program created by Duke Engineering and the
Baquerizo family to promote innovation, teamwork and entrepreneurship among
Duke undergraduates and to support efforts to commercialize their ideas.

After an application period last fall, a pool of applicants was reduced to
four finalists.

Two winners – student-formed companies **OptiML** and **Zephyr Mobility,
Inc.** – will receive BIG funding to help them develop their projects, as well
as 15 hours each of one-on-one professional support from leading intellectual
property law firm Meunier Carlin & Curfman, LLC.

They also will receive – along with the two remaining finalists, **Maralga**
and **OpenTag** – 15 consultation hours each from Duke Engineering’s resident
entrepreneur experts, Bill Walker and Steve McClelland.

“My family is deeply thankful to Duke and the Pratt School of Engineering for
the opportunities they’ve given us,” said Duke Engineering alumnus Sebastian
Baquerizo. “BIG allows us to give back to Duke in a way that goes hand in hand
with Duke Engineering’s mission to develop the next leaders and innovators of
our society.”

> "BIG allows us to give back to Duke in a way that goes hand in hand with
> Duke Engineering’s mission to develop the next leaders and innovators of our
> society."
>
> **Sebastian BaquerizO**

The spirit of the grant competition, dubbed “go BIG,” is that real
technological innovation can be accomplished by undergraduates, says
McClelland.

“We want to encourage Duke undergrads to consider how technology can be used
to have an impact on society,” said McClelland, a Duke Engineering graduate
who has founded two companies, one of which was sold to Yahoo! in 2010. “The
significant scale of Baquerizo grants give teams with early-stage projects the
resources they need to really pursue their ideas.”

Walker, also a Duke Engineering alumnus and the Mattson Family Director of
Entrepreneurial Ventures at Duke Engineering, agrees.

“BIG is like the first bit of fertilizer that great ideas need to grow,” says
Walker, an entrepreneur who holds more than 20 patents. “Over time, it will
help get the best ideas into the marketplace, where they can help real
people.”

## Projects With Impact

### Winners

#### OptiML

An artificial intelligence-powered retinal-imaging device, OptiML integrates
mobile phone cameras with a low-cost ocular imaging mount and proprietary
machine learning algorithms – allowing anyone with a smartphone to detect a
number of eye diseases, including glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy.

“OptiML has the potential to be the first automated smartphone ocular
diagnostic tool, capable of improving the lives of millions of people around
the world,” says team leader Anuj Thakkar, a mechanical engineering student in
the Class of 2020.

Thakkar is teamed with students in Duke’s Trinity College of Arts & Sciences
studying mathematics, biology and computer science. The team members includes
students Nikhil Ravi, Pranav Warman, and Kevin Zheng.

##### Zephyr Mobility

Team leader Sam Fox and Venezia Leone, both studying biomedical engineering,
are testing an inflatable repositioning device designed to reduce bedsores
among immobile patients and to reduce the risk of injury to nurses and other
health care providers.

BIG offers significant funding a a point much earlier than most investors do,
Fox said – helping projects progress to a stage where they are ready for
investment.

The Zephyr Mobility team is excited about the professional guidance it will
receive.

“Getting expert guidance early in the process will help us use our limited
funds in the best way possible,” Fox said.

### Finalists

#### Maralga

Maralga is developing a device that collects excess biomass from algae blooms
along U.S. coasts and on the surface of tropical waters to improve the marine
ecosystem and process gathered materials in sustainable, beneficial ways.

“The BIG is exactly the kind of support many undergraduate teams are looking
for as they create their projects,” says team leader Henrik Cox, a mechanical
engineering student in the Class of 2018. “It’s a fantastic opportunity for
students pursuing purposeful and unique work.”

The Maralga team is delighted to receive consultation time with the
Entrepreneurship @ Duke Engineering staff.

“Being offered these consultation hours is a significant bonus,” Cox says.
“You can write proposals for financial incentives all day long, but having the
opportunity to work closely with professionals could be the deciding factor on
a project’s ultimate success.”

Team members include Duke mechanical engineering student Steven Burcat, Duke
economics and computer science student Jacob Baca, and University of North
Carolina environmental health science student Eliza Harrison.

#### OpenTag

OpenTag is developing hardware and software to deploy biosensor tags, helping
researchers learn more about how wild animals live. The project is aimed at
lowering the barrier for research and data collection across the animal
kingdom.

“Current technology is expensive, narrowly focused, difficult to use, and
restrictive of the types of researchers who use it,” says team leader Sam
Kelly, a mechanical engineering student in the Class of 2018. “This creates
inherent limitations on the species studied and the parameters measured.”

“OpenTag is working to break these barriers, and opportunities like the
Baquerizo Innovation Grant allows undergraduates to see their projects beyond
their time at Duke,” Kelly said.

Team members include biomedical engineering student Ashley Blawas, mechanical
engineering student Henrik Cox, and Carmen Hoyt, who is studying biology and
earth and ocean sciences at Duke’s Nicholas School of the Environment.

## Giving Back to Grow Ideas

The Duke connection is strong for the grant’s namesake Baquerizo family.

Alumni and current students include Sebastian Baquerizo, E’17; Rodolfo E.
Baquerizo, E’15; Luis Martinez-Moure Baquerizo, Trinity’17; and Gabriela
Martinez-Moure Baquerizo, Trinity’18.

“Duke has extremely talented minds working to solve real-world problems,”
Sebastian Baquerizo said. “Seeing the bold, transformative ideas of this
year’s teams only makes us more excited to see what next year’s applicants
have to offer.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

