

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Indian Roadside Refuse Fires Produce Toxic Rainbow

October 24, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

First toxicity measurements of roadside garbage fires in India highlight the
unhealthy nature of a common practice

Samples of smoke particles emanating from burning roadside trash piles in
India have shown that their chemical composition and toxicityare very bad for
human health.

The wide variation found between sites by a Duke University study, however,
does offer insights about how to mitigate the worst effects of the common
practice.

“From our tests, we found that somebody standing near one of these fires is
getting a dose of toxins 1000 times greater than they would from the ambient
air,” said Michael Bergin, professor of civil and environmental engineering at
Duke University, and an author on the paper published September 20, 2016, in
the journal Atmospheric Environment. “To put it another way, a person would
only need to breathe these particles for a minute to get an entire day’s worth
of hazardous particulate matter.”

Of the nearly 2 billion tons of garbage produced worldwide each year, nearly
half of it is burned for disposal, according to some estimates. While much of
this total is burned in large collection and disposal sites away from heavily
populated areas, many cities and towns do not have the infrastructure in place
to collect waste--especially in India.

“As you walk down the street in India, there are just piles of trash growing
larger and larger until somebody decides to take a match to it,” said Heidi
Vreeland, a doctoral student in Bergin’s laboratory and lead author on the
study. “Even in large cities such as Bangalore, and even in the more affluent
neighborhoods, this is just the norm.”

In their study, Bergin and Vreeland took samples of emissions coming from 24
roadside garbage fires in urban Bangalore. They then tested the collected
particles for toxicity through both a chemical analysis and by applying them
to cultured cells.

While the results showing that the high concentrations of particles near the
fires resulted in 1,000 times more toxic exposures to nearby humans, one
aspect of the experiment was eye-raising. Thanks to various organic compounds
burning in each fire, the test filters were turned different colors, making a
rainbow of toxins.

“When you take samples of ambient air either here in the United States or in
India, you just get different shades of grey,” said Vreeland. “But these
smoldering fires turned our filters such different colors that one of my lab-
mates actually thought I was looking at a panel of eye shadows.”

The wide variability found in the fumes likely stems from the trash piles
containing many different organic and plastic materials. It’s also a result of
smoldering, incomplete combustion, which offers at least one insight into how
the practice might be improved.

“Just making sure the fire is hot enough and there’s enough material available
could go a long way to reducing its toxicity,” said Bergin, who is beginning
work on systems and recommendations that could help such roadside fires be
less toxic, and perhaps even to recoup some energy from their burning.

The study is part of a long ongoing partnership between Bergin and colleagues
at the Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur. One previous study looked at the
effects of dung cake and roadside trash burning on the amount of particulate
matter in the ambient air. Another identified local dung burning for cooking
as the primary culprit in ongoing discoloration of the Taj Mahal, leading to
immediate and widespread restrictions against the practice.

With a greater understanding of what people are burning, he hopes to determine
some best practices to keep the pollution down to a minimum. In the meantime,
Bergin and Vreeland say the results are important from an educational
standpoint as well. Although the results may not surprise any researchers or
environmentalists, calling attention to the fires’ toxicity is important
because nearby residents might not know the fumes are hazardous.

“When I was a kid growing up in Minneapolis, we used to collect our yard’s
leaves each year, spend a few days jumping into the piles, and then the whole
neighborhood would just burn them,” said Bergin. “I was still very young when
the city banned the practice because it’s terrible for the lungs of everyone
in the city, but at that time nobody thought twice about it.”

“When I visited Nicaragua to help provide residents with alternate methods of
cooking other than live fires in their homes, nobody understood that the smoke
was making them cough,” echoed Vreeland. “Coughing was just part of everyone’s
normal life. They couldn’t even really understand how not coughing could be an
option.”

This research was supported by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (RD83479901) and the National Science Foundation (1243535).

CITATION: “Chemical characterization and toxicity of particulate matter
emissions from roadside trash combustion in urban India,” Heidi Vreeland,
James J. Schauer, Armistead G. Russell, Julian D. Marshall, Akihiro Fushimi,
Grishma Jain, Karthik Sethuraman, Vishal Verma, Sachi N. Tripathi, Michael H.
Bergin. Atmospheric Environment, Sept. 20, 1026. DOI:
10.1016/j.atmosenv.2016.09.041

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

