

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Inflating to Decelerate Spacecraft

March 10, 2015 | By Caleigh MacPherson

Duke engineers are working with NASA scientists to develop an inflatable heat
shield to decelerate spacecraft entering the Earth’s atmosphere—and prepare
for a manned mission to Mars.

*Crackle* "Houston, this is Mars One. We are at the insertion point.
Permission to enter the atmosphere and descend to the surface?" *Crackle*

"Mars One, this is Houston, copy. Permission granted to deploy the HIAD.
Proceed as planned. Godspeed."

Thanks in part to the research of Benjamin Goldman, a fourth-year PhD
candidate in Duke’s Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science, this scenario may one day become a reality. As a NASA Pathways
student trainee in the aeroelasticity branch at NASA’s Langley Research Center
in Hampton, VA, he has been running an aeroelastic evaluation of the NASA
Hypersonic Inflatable Aerodynamic Decelerator (HIAD) as his graduate research.

According to NASA, the HIAD is an “inflatable device to slow a spacecraft upon
atmospheric re-entry to Earth or other planets.” In other words, it’s an
inflatable braking system and heat shield that could help humans travel to
Mars.

“The HIAD was developed to deliver larger and heavier payloads to the surface
of Mars, which may eventually help bring people and infrastructure to the
surface,” said Goldman. “The inflatable aeroshell is necessary because current
rigid aeroshells are limited by the size of the rockets that launch them—thus
limiting the payload size.”

One of the hardest parts of exploring our solar system is not the actual space
travel, as most may think; it is the insertion of the spacecraft into the
atmosphere. When a spacecraft hits an atmosphere, it is traveling at
supersonic speeds through the extremely cold temperatures of space. The moment
it enters the atmosphere, air molecules start to bombard the spacecraft, which
acts as the spacecraft’s brakes but also causes its skin to heat up and
expand. Because of this physical constraint, NASA has been searching for a way
to pack a larger aeroshell into the tiny constraints of the launch vehicle
shroud.

Because the larger the aeroshell, the better the brakes.

Over the past few decades, agency scientists have been investigating new ideas
and methods to slow down spacecraft at the point of atmospheric insertion.
Previously, NASA used thermal tiles for the Apollo and Space Shuttle missions
(and also with the upcoming Orion missions). While these thermal tiles are
efficient and work well, they are extremely costly and incredibly fragile.
Scientists working on the new inflatable HIAD design hope it will be cheaper
and more durable than the old thermal tiles and eventually replace them on
most future space missions.

HIAD is the brainchild of Dr. Neil Cheatwood of NASA’s Atmospheric Flight and
Entry Systems division at Langley Research Center. The HIAD project is part of
the THOR (Terrestrial HIAD Orbital Re-Entry) vehicle, an equipment test that
scientists are hoping to launch sometime next year.

According to Goldman, the Aeroelasticity group at Duke is “developing fluid-
structure interaction models for the HIAD vehicle.” Goldman’s background as a
physics undergrad and experience as a Navy contractor helped prepare him to
work with the fluid dynamics, structures and numerical modeling needed for
this project.

The design that the team came up with uses aerogels and woven fabrics as the
HIAD’s Thermal Protection System (TPS). In the summer of 2013, Goldman and his
NASA mentor, Robert C. Scott, performed physical testing of the materials in
the TPS in NASA’s 8’ High Temperature Tunnel. Their goal was to make sure that
the flexible materials used on the vehicle are stable in-flight.

The results showed that the stability of the HIAD will be affected by the
pressure differences of both the static and dynamic flow. They also determined
that aeroelastic flutter was present, meaning that more research would have to
be done in order for the HIAD to remain stable during flight.

Goldman is currently working on modifying NASA’s FUN3D computational fluid
dynamics code to solve the nonlinear structural dynamics of the aeroshell TPS
material. The future looks promising for both Goldman and HIAD as HIAD is a
part of NASA’s 2016 Budget Request. The current proposal calls for conducting
a high-energy reentry test on a small-scale heat shield using existing flight
hardware from a previous test. If successful, the results would verify the
heat shield’s capabilities, helping near-term missions with the International
Space Station and, perhaps someday, making human missions to Mars more
affordable.

Stay tuned to the skies for the HIAD launch!

_Caleigh MacPherson is a graduate student in the Master of Engineering
Management Program at Duke with a bachelor’s and master’s degree in mechanical
engineering from the University of New Hampshire, where she previously worked
on the NASA Magnetospheric Multiscale satellite mission. In her spare time,
she attends NASA launches as a social media journalist and she is a 2015 NASA
Solar System Ambassador._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

