

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Injectable Solution May Provide Weeks of Glucose Control

June 5, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

New diabetes treatment lasts more than two weeks in primates, promising to
eclipse current treatment options in humans.

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have created a technology that might
provide weeks of glucose control for diabetes with a single injection, which
would be a dramatic improvement over current therapies. In primates, the
treatment has been shown to last for weeks, rather than days.

By creating a controlled-release mechanism for a drug and optimizing its
circulation time in the body, this new biopolymer injection has the potential
to replace daily or weekly insulin shots with a once-a-month or twice-a-month
treatments for type 2 diabetes.

The new therapy is described June 5 in _Nature Biomedical Engineering_.

Many current treatments for type 2 diabetes use a signaling molecule called
glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP1) to cause the pancreas to release insulin to
control blood sugar. However, this peptide has a short half-life and is
cleared from the body quickly.

To make treatments last longer, researchers have previously fused GLP1 with
synthetic microspheres and biomolecules like antibodies, making them active
for two to three days in mice and up to a week in humans. Despite this
improvement, many of these treatments don’t include a mechanism to control the
rate of the peptide’s release, causing the treatment’s effectiveness to
plateau after prolonged use.

Now researchers at Duke have created a technology that fuses GLP1 to a heat-
sensitive elastin-like polypeptide (ELP) in a solution that can be injected
into the skin through a standard needle. Once injected, the solution reacts
with body heat to form a biodegradable gel-like “depot” that slowly releases
the drug as it dissolves. In animal experiments, the resulting therapy
provided glucose control up to three times longer than treatments currently on
the market.

“Although we’ve pursued this method in the past, Kelli Luginbuhl, a grad
student in my lab, systematically worked to vary the design of the delivery
biopolymer at the molecular level and found a sweet spot that maximized the
duration of the drug’s delivery from a single injection,” says Ashutosh
Chilkoti, chair of the Department of Biomedical Engineering (BME) at Duke
University and a senior author of the paper. “By doing so, we managed to
triple the duration of this short-acting drug for type 2 diabetes,
outperforming other competing designs.”

Building upon their previous work with the drug and delivery system,
researchers in the Chilkoti lab optimized their solution to regulate glucose
levels in mice for 10 days after a single injection, up from the previous
standard of 2-3 days.

In further tests, the team found that the optimized formulation improved
glucose control in rhesus monkeys for more than 14 days after a single
injection, while also releasing the drug at a constant rate for the duration
of the trial.

“What’s exciting about this work was our ability to demonstrate that the drug
could last over two weeks in non-human primates,” says Kelli Luginbuhl, a PhD
student in the Chilkoti lab and co-author of the study. “Because our
metabolism is slower than monkeys and mice, the treatment should theoretically
last even longer in humans, so our hope is that this will be the first bi-
weekly or once-a-month formulation for people with type 2 diabetes.”

Currently, the longest-acting glucose control treatment on the market,
dulaglutide, requires a once-weekly injection, while standard insulin
therapies often have to be injected twice or more every day.

Despite a variety of treatment options, managing type 2 diabetes still poses a
problem. Patients don’t always reach their glycemic targets, and adherence to
a treatment plan that relies on frequent, meal-specific dosing leaves room for
human error. By limiting the number of injections a person will need to
control their glucose levels, the researchers hope this new tool will improve
treatment options for the disease.

The researchers now plan to study the immune response to repeated injections
and test the material with other animal models. Chilkoti and Luginbuhl are
also considering additional applications for the controlled-release system,
such as delivering pain medication.

Chilkoti also said that because the drug is synthesized inside E. coli
bacterial cultures instead of mammalian cells, it is cheaper and faster to
produce, making it a potential target for use in developing countries once
it’s commercialized.

The research was funded by the National Institutes of Health (R01-DK091789).
Chilkoti is a scientific advisor for PhaseBio Pharmaceuticals, which has
licensed this technology from Duke.

“An Injectable Depot of Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Fused to a Thermosensitive
Polypeptide With Zero-Order Release Kinetics Provides One Week of Glucose
Control,” Kelli M Luginbuhl, Jeffrey L Schaal, Bret Umstead, Eric Mastria,
Xinghai Li, Samagya Banskota, Susan Arnold, Mark Feinglos, David D’Alessio,
Ashutosh Chilkoti. Nature Biomedical Engineering, June 5, 2017. DOI:
10.1038/s41551-017-0078

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

