

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Integrating Simulations of Complex Mechanics Across Campus

February 21, 2017 | By Ariel Dawn

Duke's Guglielmo Scovazzi is a recipient of the Presidential Early Career
Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE)

_Originally posted by the Information Initiative at Duke_

Before leaving the White House in early January 2017, President Obama named
Guglielmo Scovazzi, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering
(CEE) and mechanical engineering and materials science (MEMS) at Duke
University, as a recipient of the Presidential Early Career Awards for
Scientists and Engineers (PECASE). This award is the highest honor bestowed by
the U.S. government to science and engineering professionals in the early
stages of their independent research careers.

The awards, established by President Clinton in 1996, select researchers for
their pursuit of innovative research at the frontiers of science and
technology and their commitment to community service as demonstrated through
scientific leadership, public education or community outreach.

Scovazzi’s research is in the broad field of computational mechanics and, in
particular, is aimed at the development of robust and accurate numerical
modeling for solid and fluid dynamics, fluid/structure interaction, flows in
porous media and geomechanics. The applications of Scovazzi’s research involve
simulations in complex geometry on advanced parallel computing architectures,
and find a broad range of applications in the fields of aerospace, mechanical,
biomedical and petroleum engineering.

_The geometry of many modern designs can be rather complex. By developing
computational methods that are compatible with simple tetrahedral grid
generators, G. Scovazzi and his group are attempting to vastly increase the
computational efficiency of the design & analysis process. Simple finite
element methods with linear interpolation do not perform well for
incompressible materials like rubber and other polymers. However, G. Scovazzi
and his group recently developed computational methods that successfully solve
this issue. The picture above shows an incompressible stent in complex
geometry that simulates twists under torsion load. The computations are stable
and accurate, on computational grids that take only a few minutes to generate.
These results can considerably speed up overall design and analysis _time,
_and serve as a valuable tool for industrial designers._

_Salt diapirs are buoyant instabilities in the crust of the earth originated
when layers of salt are found below overburden layers of heavier rocks. These
conditions are the results of salt deposition phenomena in the oceans
alternated with turbidity currents (submarine mud slides). Over geologic
times, the layer of mud that represents the salt overburden is subject to
compaction, and increases its density, while the density of the salt remains
approximately constant. Then a layer of heavier rock (in yellow in the picture
above) is found sitting on top of a layer of lighter salt (in orange, in the
picture above). This mechanical configuration is unstable, and leads to motion
of the salt toward the surface of the earth. In the picture above, various
level of viscoelastic dissipation in the salt (s) and overburden (o) are
tested to gain insight on the mechanisms of salt diapirism. Salt diapirs are
connected with the formation of oil reservoirs, since their motion can entrap
layers of organic matter that eventually decompose into hydrocarbon compounds
and oil._

“I started to develop an interest in computational methods back as an
undergrad at Politecnico di Torino, in Turin (Italy)," Scovazzi recalls. “I
had joined the Aerospace engineering program, because of my interest since
high school in the dynamics of air around aerodynamic shapes.”

When Scovazzi was in high school, Italian science-oriented high schools
provided instruction in mechanics, thermodynamics and electromagnetism, but
not fluid dynamics because the math was seen as too difficult. At Politecnico
di Torino, Scovazzi found computer simulation to be a very useful tool for the
study of aerodynamic flows. He began creating computational methods for fluid
dynamics, and became passionate about them. The Mechanical Engineering
Department at Stanford had a much more robust computational fluid and solid
mechanics program, and Scovazzi continued to pursue these interests during his
Ph.D. program. Scovazzi then joined the Computer Science Research Institute at
Sandia National Laboratories, in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Then, in 2012, he
joined Duke’s CEE Department to add another dimension to his work by mentoring
and teaching.

“It is a great period in my life. I recently joined the Information Initiative
@ Duke and moved to Gross Hall. It is a wonderful research environment,
creative and innovative, and represents an important step in my career. In my
field, there is a convergence between data analysis and simulation, between
methods that originate in discrete mathematics and other methods that apply to
the continuum.” Scovazzi reflects that his next steps will involve creating
these simulations using simpler methods that still have the same accuracy and
quality using complicated physics and geometry. “At the moment we are working
on a number of very interesting problems in geomechanics, turbulent fluid
mechanics, and fluid/structure interaction. In some of these problems,
statistical and probabilistic methods are important factors. The convergence
of disciplines like Statistics, Math, and Machine Learning here in iiD will be
very relevant to where I am taking my research after winning this award. I am
honored to be invited to work among such esteemed and influential colleagues.
A big ‘thank you’ goes to Robert Calderbank for inviting me to become part of
the Information Initiative at Duke!”

“Guglielmo and his colleagues add a new dimension to iiD,” says Dr. Robert
Calderbank, Director of iiD. “We are delighted to welcome them to the third
floor of Gross Hall.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

