

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ‘Intelligent Classroom’ Apps Use AI to Improve Teaching & Learning in Real-
Time

October 8, 2021 | Mark Schreiner

Duke-developed machine-learning tools show promise of focused, personalized
instruction—regardless of how many students are being taught

Using creativity and lines of computer code, Duke Engineering’s Jon
Reifschneider has created an assistant that evaluates his teaching and
measures his students’ progress.

This fall, Reifschneider hopes to bring another virtual teaching assistant
online—a machine-learning powered tutor that can assess a student’s ability to
write computer code and provide them a personalized, adaptive learning path
based on their current abilities and their motivations for learning to
program.

This executive-in-residence and master’s-level instructor at Duke’s Pratt
School of Engineering has aimed these powerful computational tools to
challenges related to how he teaches and how well his students learn.

Like every good engineering project, it started with a problem.

> “Codeable provides a new learning space for the programmer community that
> creates personalized learning plans and offers useful online resources
> throughout a learner’s journey, increasing the success rate for those new to
> programming."
>
> **Qi Dai** | Duke Master of Engineering Management Student

“Even in a small class, it is difficult for an instructor to know on a day-to-
day basis where students are doing well and where they are struggling,” said
Reifschneider, who is director of the Duke AI for Product Innovation (AIPI)
Master of Engineering degree program. “In some cases, mastery might not be
understood until a mid-term exam or after a final exam. By then, it’s too late
to do anything about it. Plus, it’s impossible, usually, to know in real-time
if the root of the problem is specific to the student, or if it was a broader
class-wide issue related to how well (or poorly) a topic was taught.”

To shorten the feedback loop so that he could improve the lessons he was
delivering to his students, Reifschneider decided that an AI/ML tool might
provide a solution.

As he teaches in his master’s courses in data science and machine learning,
the first step is acquiring data, preferably lots of data.

In an unexpected silver lining of the mass transition to remote instruction
during the COVID-19 pandemic, Reifschneider had lots of data with which to
work.

## From Information to Insight

“Everything we did at Duke moved online,” he said. “This provided rich pools
of data.”

All lectures were virtual, meaning they were recorded and transcribed. Every
word Reifschneider spoke in the lectures was available for AI evaluation.
Assignments and quizzes were digital, too.

To this point, it was a reasonably standard data-acquisition process. The
answers Reifschneider sought on the quality of his teaching and on the
progress of his students were in there, in that mound of data. But how to get
the answers out, and on a useful timescale, was an engineering challenge.

By human eye and hand, that analytical task would take perhaps months. Machine
learning could do those analyses far faster than any human. Its programming
could “teach itself” what good student performance looked like and report
where it saw it and where it was lacking. ML could analyze the thousands and
thousands of words in Reifschneider’s lectures and map them to the core topics
described in the course’s syllabus.

But, as he teaches his students in a course on the limitations and ethical
dimensions of AI and ML, such systems are far from perfect. Programming and
results must be reviewed for bias and accuracy. A good developer constantly
assesses and makes improvements.

Into his machine learning tool, dubbed “Intelligent Classroom,” he poured Zoom
transcripts, quiz questions and answers, and student assignments. Then, the
Intelligent Classroom Assistant began analyzing the data and offering
insights.

Take quizzes for just one example. All questions were multiple-choice to
facilitate analysis. In addition to showing neatly how many students answered
each question correctly, the tool scored each question for difficulty. For
example, in the Week 3 quiz, less than 30 percent answered Question 5
correctly. Why? Was the topic not taught clearly? Was the question
unreasonably tricky?

Since the analysis was done quickly, Reifschneider had time to revisit topics
in the following lecture or office hour, to fill learning gaps among students
in real-time. He could also make a note for next semester to potentially
reword questions that scored as needlessly difficult.

The tool allowed him to do a similar analysis for each student, providing
personalized views of learning gaps and problem topic areas. This informed
one-on-one student meetings.

His students in a recent semester were given access to a student portal where
they could see their Intelligent Classroom data for themselves and access an
ML-derived index of course lecture transcripts. A student who had trouble
mastering a topic such as “types of missing data” would get a direct link to
the video recording of the Week 7 lecture with instructions to start it at the
1 hour, 37-minute mark. Students could also use plain language to search the
lectures; the tool provided results similar to an online search engine with
links to relevant portions of lectures.

## Improving the Performance of Students and Instructors

Reifschneider said the tool has great potential to improve the performance of
both instructors and students. Perhaps most significantly, the Intelligent
Classroom can provide individualized instructional insights no matter how many
students are in a course.

“Beyond helping teachers improve class quality, machine-learning tools could
enable them to do so at vastly increased scale,” Reifschneider said. “This
offers the promise of widespread, personalized teaching, no matter the class
size. As a result, instructors could provide more individualized guidance and
learners could learn more. Society as a whole would reap benefits, too.”

This fall at Duke, Reifschneider will introduce his students to a new machine-
learning tool called Codeable, which aims to provide personalized support to
students learning to code.

The tool is based in part on ethnographic research conducted over the summer
by Duke Master of Engineering Management student Qi Dai on the challenges
students face in building programming skills.

“Codeable provides a new learning space for the programmer community beyond
the physical classroom that creates personalized learning plans and offers
useful online resources throughout a learner’s journey, increasing the success
rate for those new to programming," Dai said.

Inside Codeable is official background documentation for the Python coding
language, large-scale digital libraries created at multiple institutions that
match snippets of computer code with their meanings in plain English and
Reifschneider’s own database of programming-code/English-word “pairs.”

A recent demonstration showed how a student could point Codeable to code they
have already written. Codeable would then review the code to determine their
proficiency in different aspects of programming. It would recommend a set of
next topics to learn and provide links to those lessons. After completing that
work, the student could return to Codeable for an almost instant analysis of
their progress since the last visit and receive additional personalized
suggestions.

> "My big discovery was that sometimes students do not realize what they are
> struggling with. I needed a tool that could identify issues that are
> difficult to spot.”
>
> **Jon Reifschneider** | director, Duke AI for Product Innovation Master of
> Engineering degree

“The idea for this came from weekly lesson planning,” Reifschneider said.
“Intelligent Classroom recommended topics that needed review. Some topics
students were struggling with came up again and again, so we returned to those
topics in class. My big discovery was that sometimes students realize what
they are struggling with, but many times they do not. I thought about building
a tool that could work one-on-one with a student as an extension of the course
instructor, helping the instructor identify issues that often are difficult to
spot.”

The Codeable tutor can understand where a student is struggling, and then
scale its recommendations to the student. Its recommendations will grow and
progress at the pace the student learns.

Reifschneider has received a grant to support the continued development of the
Intelligent Classroom tools from Duke Learning Innovation, an expert group on
campus that facilitates online learning and works with faculty to develop new
learning technologies, as part of their “Carry the Innovation Forward”
program. In the fall, he’ll hire two research assistants to help him build out
and improve the system while it continues to be used in AIPI courses.

Codeable will pitch in on making improvements, too. In the world of machine
learning, Codeable implements a combination of what is known as “supervised
learning” and “unsupervised learning”. It learns patterns from uncategorized
data. Then, through mimicry of what it discovers, the machine builds an
internal representation of its world and can generate insights based on those
patterns.

“Codeable will continue to improve as it goes,” Reifschneider said. “It is not
perfect, but it’s proven itself good enough already to be valuable in
improving my teaching and my students’ learning.”

Earn a master's in AI from Duke

## Related News

July 29, 2021 | Duke Today

### NSF Launches Artificial Intelligence Center at Duke

August 13, 2020

### New Master’s Degree Applies AI to Product Innovation

May 29, 2020

### Duke Launches Graduate Certificate in AI for Product Innovation

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

