

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Interview with the Architects: Behind the Design of Duke’s New Wilkinson
Building

January 21, 2021

Bohlin Cywinski Jackson architects Natalie Gentile and Jason Morris discuss
the vision and design decisions that gave shape to the Wilkinson Building

_For nearly a decade, the Pittsburgh studio of architecture firm Bohlin
Cywinski Jackson collaborated with Duke University leaders, faculty and staff
to create a space that not only accommodates the Pratt School of Engineering’s
rapid growth, but reflects its high aspirations for engineering education and
research. Below, Bohlin Cywinski Jackson architects Natalie Gentile and Jason
Morris discuss the vision and design decisions that gave shape to theWilkinson
Building—the newest landmark on Duke’s iconic campus.  
_

__

What was the vision you were tasked with bringing to life on this project? How
did you design the space to meet those goals?

**Gentile:** One of the key ambitions of this project was to focus, in a very
intentional way, on the undergraduate engineering experience. This meant going
beyond extending opportunities to support academic goals with new teaching and
co-curricular spaces, to making a place for the students to call home. For
example, the Learning Commons is one of several places for the students to
meet, to study, and to create in formal and informal ways. And we really felt
it was important to always be able to connect to the outside, see the daylight
and take in a long view—this fosters a sense of wellbeing.

The weaving together of research and teaching was also a vision for the
project that I truly appreciated. Dean Bellamkonda had a vision for research
neighborhoods that bring departments within the school together. But because
the research floors are layered over the dedicated floors for education, it
was critical for us to provide opportunities for students and faculty to cross
paths and to provide the invitation to explore the entire facility, to see and
experience engineering in its most diverse reaches.

**Morris:** A big part of what makes the project unique compared to a lot of
other academic facilities is the thoughtful creation of social and
collaborative spaces that connect the teaching and research components of the
facility. We focused on celebrating the vertical and horizontal movement
through the building as a means providing visual connectivity across and
through these spaces--for example, the cascading open stair that connects all
levels of the building and invite students on the lower level up to the
research neighborhoods. And the central collaboration spine, which has become
known as “The Wedge,” provides a social heart and opportunities for the kind
of serendipitous encounters that encourage cross-pollination of ideas.

What are the challenges of designing a new building for an iconic campus like
Duke’s?

**Morris:** It is always a challenge to design a new modern building on a
campus with such a rich architectural heritage as Duke’s. The compact site is
one of the biggest challenges we faced at the outset of the project. But once
we determined the best way to situate the building on the site, we started
looking at some of the basic principles of the American campus Gothic
tradition as a guide.

The most obvious example is the exterior’s emphasis on vertical elements and
their spacing and rhythm, which informed the design of the curtain wall and
sun-shading devices on the west and south facades. We also utilized
proportional studies of some of the traditional building facades on campus as
we designed the north and south elevations. That informed the scale and
proportion of the windows and the manner in which the brick facing shifts in
and out to visually break down the scale of these large elevations.

Tell us how you incorporated Duke stone into the project.

**Morris** : As one looks around the Duke campus, Duke stone is the most
prevalent material one finds in the historic buildings. Duke has its own
quarry nearby where the stone is sourced, and although it is is not as
abundant in supply as it once was, there’s always a desire to make that
relationship to the historic context with the materiality of a new building.
Since we were limited in the amount of Duke stone we could use, we focused on
some key areas--around the entrance of the building and into the interior, so
you can see how the Wilkinson Building relates to the Chapel and historic quad
nearby--and as the backdrop to the donor wall [where donors will be
recognized]. We also used Duke stone extensively in the surrounding
landscaping and retaining walls, which is the tradition around campus.

Over the course of the project you gathered input from many stakeholders
across Duke and Pratt—including, very importantly, undergraduate and graduate
students. Did the student focus groups provide any particular insights or
ideas that are reflected in the final design?

**Gentile:** I truly enjoyed talking with the student focus groups. They're so
willing to give thoughtful feedback and I do remember two particular items
that influenced decisions. One was requests for big tables, which you can now
see throughout the building. The other was space for large groups to meet and
collaborate, as well as designated quiet zones. I'm really happy to say that
the building does provide a variety of spaces so that the students can find
their favorite spots.

Sustainability is one of Duke’s core values, and a high priority for this
particular project, which is aimed at achieving LEED Gold certification. How
did you design the Wilkinson Building for long-term sustainability?

**Gentile:** Our approach was always to provide a lifetime building that can
adapt over time to changing pedagogy and research topics. It was also
important to design systems that are easy to operate and maintain. This speaks
to both sustainability and resiliency, and I believe we have achieved that
through the selection of durable, high quality materials--not just the ones
that are seen throughout the building but those that are hidden in mechanical
rooms and infrastructure shafts.

We also believe that buildings that are loved are well cared-for. This is a
very sustainable strategy!

Now that the project is finally complete, how do you think it turned out? What
are you most proud of, and what are your hopes for the Wilkinson Building as
it comes into use?

**Morris:** I’ve been part of project for a few years now, and it’s always
wonderful to start walking through the spaces as they’re being built and see
our plans and drawings come to life. The spaces really start to come alive
when you’re in them--understanding how the light reflects, how the spaces
progress from one to the next as you move through them . . . you can’t really
experience that until you walk through the building, and that to me is one of
the most exciting things. The Wilkinson Building has really exceeded my
expectations experientially. There are so many unique features that create
experiences and opportunities for students to congregate and collaborate in
meaningful ways.

**Gentile:** I think we got the internal dynamic quality right. We nailed the
vertical and horizontal conductivity and the flow of the space. I think it's a
very easy building to navigate and to live in. But I am most proud of the
truly collective effort that involved multiple stakeholder groups focused on a
shared vision. I don't think we would have had the success without the
thoughtful contributions and timely decision-making.

Personally, I am most grateful for a happy client and the relationships that
have developed from years of working together. I hope the occupants will find
the Wilkinson Building a productive, energizing place to work and teach and to
create--that they find inherent inspiration and new connections that foster
the advancement of engineering.

## Learn more at pratt.duke.edu/wilkinson21

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

