

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Drones Collaboratively Explore Scenarios with Limited Communications

December 4, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers develop algorithms for teams of drones to collaboratively explore
new terrain while falling in and out of communication with one another

Communication is key for any team trying to collaboratively complete a task,
whether it is comprised of people or autonomous robots. But while people can
use intuition and experience to manage unforeseen circumstances, a robot
cannot operate outside of its programming.

For many squadrons of drones operating in the field—perhaps scouting for a
radiation leak in a nuclear facility with thick concrete walls or mapping
miles of ocean floor—remaining in constant contact is impossible. Their
programming, then, must be able to adapt to challenges such as a changing
operational area or sudden loss of communications.

Michael Zavlanos, the Mary Milus Yoh and Harold L. Yoh, Jr. Associate
Professor at Duke University, is working on intermittent communication
protocols that allow robots to temporarily disconnect from each other to
autonomously operate in such difficult terrains.

“By disconnecting from the network, the robots can cover different areas free
of communication constraints,” said Zavlanos. “The goal is to ensure that they
will always eventually reconnect at properly negotiated meeting locations to
transfer information between one another.”

But what happens when a robot doesn’t arrive at a communication point at the
scheduled time? Do the other robots wait forever? If just a few things go
wrong at once, the entire system can deadlock with robots waiting for each
other at different locations.

To get around this issue, Zavlanos programs his squadron of robots in a way
that they can tolerate uncertainty in the arrival times at the communication
locations. In this way, communication events are guaranteed to take place and
information can eventually propagate from any robot to any other robot in the
team in an intermittent way. While this problem may seem simple for small
teams of just a few robots, it quickly becomes daunting when scaling up to
dozens of drones or more.

“The question we’re really trying to answer is which robots should communicate
where and when so that information can be propagated indefinitely,” said
Zavlanos. “We also want these robots to design these sequences of
communication events in a distributed way using only local information, even
though they are essentially disconnected from each other most of the time.”

Zavlanos’s current work involves four autonomous ground robots searching for
four different colored stars, which represent important pieces of information.
The simulation also includes various marked locations for potential
communication. As they work through their search pattern and communicate with
one another, eventually one robot gathers all four stars and returns them to
the user.

“In this specific experiment, the robots already know in advance what tasks
they need to accomplish,” said Zavlanos. “But we’re also working on an
adaptive version where the tasks are announced in real-time, and the robots
must plan new search paths while simultaneously ensuring that their
communication protocols remain intact.”

CITATIONS: Y. Kantaros and M. M. Zavlanos, “Distributed Intermittent
Connectivity Control of Mobile Robot Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic
Control, vol. 62, no. 7, pp. 3109-3121, Jul. 2017

M. Guo and M. M. Zavlanos, “Multi-Robot Data Gathering under Buffer
Constraints and Intermittent Communication,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics,
Vol. 34, No. 4, pp. 1082-1097, August 2018.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

