

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineers Grow Functioning Human Muscle from Skin Cells

January 8, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

First functioning human muscle grown from induced pluripotent stem cells holds
promise for cellular therapies, drug discovery and studying rare diseases

Biomedical engineers have grown the first functioning human skeletal muscle
from induced pluripotent stem cells.

The advance builds on work published in 2015 when researchers at Duke
University grew the first functioning human muscle tissue from cells obtained
from muscle biopsies. The ability to start from cellular scratch using non-
muscle tissue will allow scientists to grow far more muscle cells, provide an
easier path to genome editing and cellular therapies, and develop individually
tailored models of rare muscle diseases for drug discovery and basic biology
studies.

The results appear online Tuesday, January 9, in Nature Communications.

“Starting with pluripotent stem cells that are not muscle cells, but can
become all existing cells in our body, allows us to grow an unlimited number
of myogenic progenitor cells,” said Nenad Bursac, professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke University. “These progenitor cells resemble adult muscle
stem cells called ‘satellite cells’ that can theoretically grow an entire
muscle starting from a single cell.”

In their previous work, Bursac and his team started with small samples of
human cells obtained from muscle biopsies, called “myoblasts,” that had
already progressed beyond the stem cell stage but hadn’t yet become mature
muscle fibers. They grew these myoblasts by many folds and then put them into
a supportive 3-D scaffolding filled with a nourishing gel that allowed them to
form aligned and functioning human muscle fibers.

In the new study, the researchers instead started with human induced
pluripotent stem cells. These are cells taken from adult non-muscle tissues,
such as skin or blood, and reprogrammed to revert to a primordial state. The
pluripotent stem cells are then grown while being flooded with a molecule
called Pax7—which signals the cells to start becoming muscle.

As the cells proliferated they became very similar to—but not quite as robust
as—adult muscle stem cells. While previous studies had accomplished this feat,
nobody has been able to then grow these intermediate cells into functioning
skeletal muscle.

The Duke researchers succeeded where previous attempts had failed.

“It’s taken years of trial and error, making educated guesses and taking baby
steps to finally produce functioning human muscle from pluripotent stem
cells,” said Lingjun Rao, a postdoctoral researcher in Bursac’s laboratory and
first author of the study. “What made the difference are our unique cell
culture conditions and 3-D matrix, which allowed cells to grow and develop
much faster and longer than the 2-D culture approaches that are more typically
used.”

Once the cells were well on their way to becoming muscle, Bursac and Rao
stopped providing the Pax7 signaling molecule and started giving the cells the
support and nourishment they needed to fully mature.

In the study, the researchers show that after two to four weeks of 3-D
culture, the resulting muscle cells form muscle fibers that contract and react
to external stimuli such as electrical pulses and biochemical signals
mimicking neuronal inputs just like native muscle tissue. They also implanted
the newly grown muscle fibers into adult mice and showed that they survive and
function for at least three weeks while progressively integrating into the
native tissue through vascularization.

The resulting muscle, however, is not as strong as native muscle tissue, and
also falls short of the muscle grown in the previous study that started from
muscle biopsies. Despite this caveat, the researchers say this muscle still
holds potential that the stronger, older relative does not.

The pluripotent stem cell-derived muscle fibers develop reservoirs of
“satellite-like cells” that are necessary for normal adult muscles to repair
damage, while the muscle from the previous study had much fewer of these
cells. The stem cell method is also capable of growing many more cells from a
smaller starting batch than the biopsy method.

Both of the advantages point toward a possibility of using this new method for
regenerative therapies and for creating models of rare diseases for future
studies and individualized health care.

“The prospect of studying rare diseases is especially exciting for us,” said
Bursac. “When a child’s muscles are already withering away from something like
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, it would not be ethical to take muscle samples
from them and do further damage. But with this technique, we can just take a
small sample of non-muscle tissue, like skin or blood, revert the obtained
cells to a pluripotent state, and eventually grow an endless amount of
functioning muscle fibers to test.”

The technique also holds promise for being combined with genetic therapies.
Researchers could, in theory, fix genetic malfunctions in the induced
pluripotent stem cells derived from a patient and then grow small patches of
completely healthy muscle. While this could not heal or replace an entire
body’s worth of diseased muscle, it could be used in tandem with more widely
targeted genetic therapies or to heal more localized problems.

The researchers are now refining their technique to grow more robust muscles
and beginning work to develop new models of rare muscle diseases.

This work was supported by National Institutes of Health (UH3-TR000505,
UG3-TR002142, AR065873, and AR070543).

CITATION: “Engineering Human Pluripotent Stem Cells Into a Functional Skeletal
Muscle Tissue.” Lingjun Rao, Ying Qian, Alastair Khodabukus, Thomas Ribar and
Nenad Bursac. Nature Communications, January 2018. DOI:
10.1038/s41467-017-02636-4

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

