

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Isa Ferrall: Making Solar Energy Economical

May 13, 2015 | By Isa Ferrall

##### **NAE Grand Challenge Scholar Profile**

  * **Major:** Mechanical Engineering
  * **Sub-Plan:** Energy and the Environment Certificate
  * **Grand Challenge:** Engineering Better Medicines
  * **GC Advisor:**Professor Jeffrey Glass
  * **Project Title:** Growing Flowers on Forests: Examining the
    Electrodeposition of Manganese Dioxide on graphenated-Carbon-Nanotubes for
    Improved Energy-Storage via Supercapacitor Devices

I have used the amazing opportunity of being a National Academy of Engineering
Grand Challenge Scholar to immerse myself in the clean/renewable/sustainable
energy field and have pursued research to push the field even farther forward.
I worked in Dr. Jeff Glass’s Nanomaterials and Thin Films laboratory on two
different projects relating to solar fuels and energy storage. I believe that
one of the most effective ways to make solar energy economical is to provide
better energy storage. One way of storing solar energy is to produce hydrogen
from light by using the surface of certain materials as a catalyst. For my
first project, I grew, characterized and tested thin films for their water
splitting performance under light. Photoelectrochemical water splitting allows
for hydrogen to be produced and stored as a fuel with only solar input.

> The Grand Challenge Program has provided a focus for the endless array of
> things I have engaged in at Duke and has given me a greater purpose for
> pursuing engineering both at Duke and in the future.

During my second project, I worked on more conventional energy storage by
writing my senior thesis on the processing of manganese dioxide on carbon
nanotubes to achieve better and more reliable materials for supercapacitors.
The project’s goal is to be able to pair the supercapacitors with photovoltaic
cells in a footprint design so that the energy can be both produced and stored
in the same device.

Thanks to the Grand Challenge Program, I have had access to world-class
research instrumentation labs, participated in interdisciplinary and advanced
courses in energy, attended presentations and conferences, and engaged in
global service, all of which deepened my awareness and heightened my
motivation to develop practical solutions for society's energy problems. The
Grand Challenge Program has provided a focus for the endless array of things I
have engaged in at Duke and has given me a greater purpose for pursuing
engineering both at Duke and in the future. I plan to pursue a career in the
renewable energy field with a focus on materials for solar energy. I recognize
that by the time I have a steady career, the world’s energy landscape will
look very different than it does today, but my experiences at Duke have
prepared me to tackle both the present and future Grand Challenges of
Engineering.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

