

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# James L. Vincent

May 3, 2014

Chairman of the Board, Biogen, Inc.

**Graduation Year:** 1961

**Degree at Duke:**  
Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:**  
Mechanical Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

  * Chairman of the Board of Biogen, Inc., the oldest independent
    biotechnology company in the world
  * Guided Biogen's landmark launch of its first proprietary pharmaceutical
    product, AVONEX® (Interferon beta-1a), which now generates annual revenues
    of more than $700 million
  * Previously built successful enterprises within Texas Instruments, Abbot
    Laboratories, and Allied Signal

In the mid-'80s, pharmaceutical and financial industry wisdom had it that the
pioneering biotech firm Biogen, Inc., founded nine years earlier by a group of
talented scientists that included two Nobel Prize winners, was in trouble. But
when Biogen brought in Pratt School of Engineering alumnus James L. Vincent as
its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the tide began to turn.

Vincent's sharp focus on, in his own words, "transforming knowledge into
product" guided a series of key structural changes-and calculated risks-that
set the stage for the company's successful release of Avonex® in 1996. A
bioengineered version of a naturally occurring substance known as beta
interferon, Avonex® quickly became the treatment of choice for multiple
sclerosis and captured more than 60 percent of the global market share. Biogen
now has several other promising products in its pipeline and, as management
consulting firm Booz Allen & Hamilton put it, has clearly gone "from startup
to big-time player." Demonstrating his talent for leadership in a series of
remarkable triumphs over the course of his career, Vincent has come a long way
from his small-town Pennsylvania roots.

"I think an engineering education correlates absolutely with the analytic
frame of mind you need for business," Vincent says. "It gives you a
disciplined approach to problem-solving that's important in everything from
product development to strategic decision-making. It also gives you a comfort
level with technology that is invaluable in helping you learn what you need to
know. When I went to Abbott, I could barely spell 'antibody,' but, with my
engineering education, I quickly came up the learning curves to the required
level.

"Many quite successful people I've met in the worlds of high-tech and biotech
have good business minds but a natural resistance to science and technology,"
Vincent adds. "But I believe that you can't be a full participant at the
resource allocation table-which means deciding when to start, when to stop,
and where you're going to place your bets-unless you are literate in the
technology of your business."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

