

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jennifer West Wins 2019 Dean's Award for Excellence in Mentoring

March 22, 2019

West has trained 45 graduate students and 23 postdoctoral fellows with an
emphasis on career development and the importance of fostering diversity and
inclusion in the science community

_From the Duke Graduate School_

## Jennifer West

_Dean's Award for Excellence in Mentoring_  
 _Fitzpatrick Family University Professor of Engineering_

## BIO

Jennifer West has been the associate dean for Ph.D. education at the Pratt
School of Engineering since 2015. Since 2012, she has been the Fitzpatrcik
Family University Professor of Engineering in the Departments of Biomedical
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science, Cell Biology, and
Chemistry. She has a robust record of professional service and has served in a
variety of positions, including the 2017-2019 Chair of Frontiers of
Engineering at the National Academy of Engineers.

Over her career, she has trained 45 graduate students and 23 postdoctoral
fellows. West's mentorship emphasizes career development and the importance of
fostering diversity and inclusion in the science community. West has received
numerous accolades throughout her career, including the 2016 Capers and Marion
McDonald Excellence in Research and Teaching Award in the Pratt School of
Engineering.

West's research focuses on the development of novel biofunctional materials.
Part of her program has developed nanoparticle-based approaches to
biophotonics therapeutics and diagnostics. She has authored more than 200
publications and holds 20 patents that have all been licensed through 10
companies. She is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the
National Academy of Inventors.

## ON MENTORING

"Students aren't just here to work in the research labs. They are here to get
an education and to prepare themselves for the next step. Giving them
opportunities to learn, develop skills, explore, and see new environments is
really important to that process."

## IN THEIR WORDS

_Excerpts from West's Nomination_

"Beyond her clear guidelines, Dr. West possesses the power to encourage in
exacting detail. It is almost as if she knows each person's weaknesses or
fears and takes great care with specific effort to have them addressed. She
did this for me in the form of oral presentations at conferences, encouraging
me to apply for award after award and pushing me to push myself. Dr. West took
me under her wing and told me I could fly. When I didn't believe her, she
pushed me out of the proverbal 'nest' and now, I'm flying."

"I will always look up to Dr. West as a scientist and mentor. Her knowledge,
insight, and integrity are admirable. She cares about her students, both
personally and professionally. She always believed in me and sought out
opportunities for my growth."

"Despite her busy schedule and many leadership roles around campus, Dr. West
always makes time for her students. She posts several in-person meetings every
week and is always quick to respond to e-mails and willing to schedule further
meetings."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

