

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jennifer West Wins 2015 Clemson Award

April 8, 2015

Jennifer West, the Fitzpatrick Family University Professor of Engineering with
appointments in the Departments of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science, Cell Biology, and Chemistry, has been
awarded the 2015 Clemson Award for Basic Research from the Society for
Biomaterials.

Clemson Awards are given in honor of the strong traditional ties between the
Society for Biomaterials and Clemson University that have existed since 1974.
Awardees are selected by the Society for Biomaterials Awards, Ceremonies and
Nominations Committee and confirmed by the President of Clemson University.

The award for basic research recognizes outstanding contributions to the basic
knowledge and understanding of the interaction of materials with tissue,
focusing on theoretical concepts, developing new materials or studying the
interactions of a bacterial in a biological environment.

West was cited for “her significant utilization and application of basic
knowledge in science to accomplish a significant goal in the biomaterials
field.” If this sounds like a broad citation, perhaps that is because West has
made important contributions to a wide variety of biomedical fields. A few of
her research pursuits include using gold nanoparticles to battle cancer,
creating patterned surfaces to control the physical interactions of cultured
cells, and engineering biomimetic hydrogels that approximate soft tissues in
the body, making them idea substrates for many cell and tissue applications.

“Dr. West has not only defeated the impossible; she has made a significant
impact in healthcare management through innovative biomaterials technology,”
said Martine LaBerge, PhD, who nominated West for the award, in a Society for
Biomaterials news release. “In the past 19 years, she has passed the torch to
more than forty PhD graduates and post-doctoral fellows in addition to
hundreds of undergraduate students.”

West’s Clemson Award continues a sort of tradition at Pratt, which has had
three other winners of the award in recent years: Kam Leong (2012 Clemson
Award for Applied Research), Ashutosh Chilkoti (2011 Clemson Award for
Contributions to the Literature), and William “Monty” Reichert (2010 Clemson
Award for Basic Research).

“This is the fourth Clemson Award for Duke’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering in the past five years,” said West. “This demonstrates the depth
of excellence in biomaterials research here in Pratt.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

