

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jessica Shah Selected as Pratt Research Fellow

January 7, 2022 | Brittany Vekstein

Shah, an undergraduate student in the Musah Lab, will explore how to create
improved models of kidney disease

This feature was originally published on the Duke MEDx website. View the
original article here.

Jessica Shah, an undergraduate student in biomedical engineering at Duke
University, was recently named a Pratt Research Fellow. Shah is a member of
the Musah Lab, a stem cell biology and therapeutic organ engineering lab led
by Samira Musah, PhD, assistant professor in the department of biomedical
engineering, medicine and cell biology, and an investigator for Duke MEDx.

The Pratt Research Fellows program is a competitive research program that give
undergraduate students the opportunity to contribute to cutting-edge research
topics, while gaining a deep understanding of advanced concepts within their
fields. Students receive course credit, presentation experience, and the
opportunity to conduct summer research.

Originally from Las Vegas, Nevada, Shah is pursuing a bachelor’s degree in
biomedical engineering with a minor in chemistry. As a member of the Pratt
Research Fellowship program, Shah will receive support and mentorship as she
pursues research relating to kidney disease. Shah will specifically explore
how to improve the structure and function of an organ-on-a-chip system being
engineered in the lab.

“Jessica Shah is an exceptional student. In addition to her impeccable
academic record, she has been extraordinarily productive in the lab, working
on a project integrating her medicine and engineering interests. Jessica's
desire to develop engineering solutions for complex medical problems is ideal
for the MEDx initiative and MD/PhD programs. I am proud of her
accomplishments, including her recent selection as a Pratt Research Fellow,"
said Musah.

Chronic kidney disease research is limited by the lack of models that
accurately mimic the structure and function of the human kidney glomerulus,
which is the site of blood filtration. To address this, Shah is working with a
fellow Musah Lab mentor and PhD student, Xingrui Mou, on a research project to
engineer this organ-on-a-chip system with an integrated biodegradable membrane
as a functional model of the human kidney glomerulus.

Shah is hoping to optimize their device to better simulate _in vivo_ blood
filtration and kidney disease.

“I hope that our organ-on-a-chip system will be used by other researchers as a
physiologically relevant alternative to traditional 2D cell culture and animal
models,” said Shah.

Shah plans to pursue a MD/PhD dual degree with a PhD in biomedical
engineering. Ultimately, she would like to use her training to improve the way
therapeutics are developed to treat patients. This concept continues to be of
interest to others at Duke who are part of MEDx (Medicine + Engineering), like
Shah’s mentor Dr. Samira Musah. Musah is also a research nephrologist, with a
joint appointment in medicine and engineering.

Duke MEDx is an initiative started in 2015 between the Duke School of Medicine
and the Pratt School of Engineering to foster the exchange of ideas and create
research opportunities between physicians, engineers, computer scientists,
researchers, and innovators. MEDx promotes the training of the next generation
of researchers and clinicians to work symbiotically on new solutions to
address complex clinical problems and develop strategic commercialization
opportunities to translate research advances into effective devices,
therapeutics and care delivery systems. The work of undergraduate researchers
like Jessica Shah help contribute to this goal.

Shah has been inspired to pursue a MD/PhD thanks to her experiences and
coursework at Duke focused on engineering and science. “I am passionate about
developing better _in vitro_ models of different diseases and organ systems
because I believe it can greatly accelerate drug discovery and personalized
medicine,” Shah shared.

Learn more about the Pratt Research Fellowship Program.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

