

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Joel Greenberg: Spotting Explosives and Tumors

August 28, 2014

Scattered x-rays could reveal the chemical composition of items in a suitcase
or cells inside a tumor

Joel Greenberg has been named an assistant research professor in Duke’s
Department of Electrical and computer Engineering. As a former research
scientist in the department and member of the Duke Imaging and Spectroscopy
Program (DISP), he will continue leading a project he has been working on
since 2012—developing new ways to use x-rays to peer inside suitcases.

In a traditional x-ray imaging device, the machine records x-rays that pass by
the object being scanned and actively tries to ignore the background noise of
ricocheting rays. Those scattered x-rays, however, contain valuable data.

“You can get chemical and molecular information about an object from x-rays
bouncing off of it,” says Greenberg. “You can even spot explosive materials
that would look benign on a traditional x-ray scanner.”

Greenberg has been at Duke for the past 10 years, earning his PhD in physics
in 2012. His thesis focused on the collective behavior of a super-cooled cloud
of atoms excited by lasers. While quantum physics may seem like a far cry from
x-ray spectroscopy, Greenberg says both require finding the best way to make
accurate measurements informed by the physics involved.

“I enjoy the challenge of working on a project with a short-term, real-world
application as a goal,” said Greenberg. “But I still like projects that start
with writing down fundamental equations.”

The applications Greenberg is working on aren’t limited to the airport—he’s
also taking his x-ray imaging research into the medical sector. The same
scattered x-rays that can carry chemical composition information about
explosives could also spot cancerous tissues. Greenberg is working on
technologies that could assess the margins of tumors during surgery,
noninvasively diagnose a tumor or check up on a treatment’s progress.

Whether in the airport or in the clinic, Greenberg is happy to be pursuing
prototypes rather than just proof of concepts. And he’s happy to still be
pursuing them at Duke.

“I had several offers from industry as well,” says Greenberg. “But I found
private companies’ research to be too far from basic science. Plus, I get the
opportunity to teach classes in engineering and a lot of work with project
management. It’s a great mix, and Duke has been really good to me.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

