

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Johann Guilleminot: Accounting for Variabilities That Matter

October 11, 2016 | Written by Ken Kingery

Accommodating and predicting variability helps experimental models and
simulations across disciplines

Johann Guilleminot has joined the faculty of Duke University’s Department of
Environmental and Civil Engineering. With expertise in computational
mechanics, materials science and stochastic methods, Guilleminot will help
collaborators campuswide develop more accurate models of everything from brain
impacts to nuclear waste storage.

At a very basic level, every computation made is an average of many possible
outcomes. For most, molecular and nanoscale fluctuations don’t significantly
impact the results at the scale of interest. But for some fields, even the
smallest changes can cause rifts between simulations and experimental results
or between multiple experiments.

Guilleminot develops and uses predictive modeling to take these variabilities
into account in applications where they become relevant. For example,
differences in the physical properties of brain tissue from person to person
can affect whether or not a helmet prevents a concussion. Tiny inconsistencies
in how a delicate part of a complex machine is made can change how well it
functions. Minuscule cracks and imperfections in a storage vessel for nuclear
waste can determine whether or not it fails during an earthquake.

These variabilities boil down to how different materials react and interact
with one another on an atomistic scale or through continuum models, whether
those materials constitute biomedical tissues or a novel nanocomposite system.

“The physical world is never exactly how we expect it to be in models or
manufacturing,” said Guilleminot, who joins Duke from France’s Université
Paris-Est Marne-la-Vallée. “But we can take into account how it changes and
become predictive in our efforts, rather than just smoothing out the
variability with averages.”

Guilleminot earned a master’s degree in 2005 in theoretical mechanics from the
Lille University of Science and Technology. He then completed his doctoral
work in echanics in 2008, also at the Lille University of Science and
Technology, before joining the faculty of Université Paris-Est Marne-la-Vallée
in 2009.

In 2010, Guilleminot was a visiting scholar at the University of Southern
California—an experience that greatly influenced his decision to move to Duke.
Besides hearing about the opportunity from a friend at USC, Guilleminot says
the most advanced work being done in his field is in the United States.

“My field of research is very active right now, especially in the United
States,” said Guilleminot, who will spend a year travelling between Duke and
France as a visiting assistant professor before joining Duke’s faculty full-
time on July 1, 2017.

As for why Guilleminot chose Duke specifically, he says that his work is a
perfect match for the various research projects being pursued across campus.
For example, he points to the medical school and Duke’s strength in
biomechanics as areas his work could impact, from designing biomedical
structures to predicting aneurysms to simulating cardiovascular systems.
Guilleminot also noted he was attracted by Duke’s outstanding students both
from the United States and abroad, as the interactions gained through
mentoring others was a primary role in his decision to become a faculty
member.

Guilleminot sees a pressing need to educate students on stochastic approaches
and plans to propose a new graduate course focusing on probabilistic modeling
and uncertainty quantification techniques in computational mechanics.

“This will be a unique opportunity to contribute to the dissemination of the
state-of-the-art techniques in uncertainty quantification to the next
generation of engineers and researchers,” Guilleminot added. “Duke may be a
relatively small school, but it has very good, young, dynamic people working
on lots of interdisciplinary topics. My work can provide different points of
views in many disciplines and enrich simulations with variability and high-
fidelity computations.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

