

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# John Oxaal, Duke BME’s First Entrepreneur in Residence

April 9, 2018

Serial entrepreneur John Oxaal guides new start-ups to success

_This story was republished from the Duke University Office of Licensing &
Ventures _

Google ‘Entrepreneur in Residence (EIR)’ and you will get a varied set of
skill requirements with phases like venture capital, startups, seed funding,
spin-offs, and so on.

As a venture capitalist, the objective is to look at deals that come their way
and make a determination as to the strength of the technology and management
team. If they like the idea and managers, it’s a good indicator towards
investment.

However, for an EIR this notion is flip-flopped—they already like the tech and
the team; it’s more about choosing the right investment vehicle.

For Pratt’s Biomedical Engineering (BME) Chair Ashutosh Chilkoti asking a
former BME graduate, John Oxaal, to become Pratt’s first EIR was an easy
choice. With an undergraduate degree in BME from Duke, an MBA from the
University of Chicago, and experience as both an entrepreneur and a venture
capitalist, he had the perfect skillset to help catalyze new startups around
BME technologies.

In the early 90s, Oxaal worked with Professor Olaf von Ram to help form
Volumetrics Medical Imaging, which developed the first real-time 3-D
ultrasound machine. Oxaal stayed with Volumetrics until ’99 before moving to
the west coast to work at Sevin Rosen Funds as a venture capitalist.

“I knew John would be an excellent candidate to help expand BME’s knowledge
and technology,” Chilkoti said. “As a Duke BME alum, and with previous Duke
start-up experience, I knew he could guide us through the process of
transferring BME’s innovative research to the market.”

Soon after taking on his position as an EIR, Oxaal landed on the gene editing
research of Professor Charles Gersbach and his colleagues Greg Crawford, Tim
Reddy, and Kris Wood.

In 2015, through his role as the Duke BME EIR, Oxaal helped Gersbach, et al.
found Element Genomics, a Duke startup developing a suite of technologies for
understanding gene regulatory elements, such as CRISPR gene editing
technologies, to identify new drug targets for common diseases. Oxaal would
later become the CEO of Element.

“As academics interested in translating our work to the biotech industry, it
was critical to have a veteran entrepreneur like John to guide us through the
unfamiliar territory of founding a company, licensing technology, and setting
up operations outside of a university,” Professor Gersbach said of Pratt’s
EIR. “Another critical factor to making this all possible was the incredible
responsiveness we received from Duke’s OLV. They were diligent in every step
of the process from protecting and managing the IP to participating in final
license and contract discussions.”

The Element founders also received funding from the Coulter Foundation
Translational Partnership Program at Duke that provides $1 million in early-
stage funding and management to faculty health care innovations annually with
a goal of licensing and creating new life science start-up companies.

The Coulter Foundation is directed by veteran entrepreneur Professor Barry
Myers. Myers saw much potential in the Element team and pushed hard to get
them to move forward with their idea.

Now the company has moved on to further success with the acquisition
announcement this month by UCB, a global biopharmaceutical company based in
Belgium with a clinical development office in Raleigh.

“We at Element are thrilled that UCB shared our vision for treating disease
through knowledge gained through functional genomics and the vast and largely
unexplored biology of the epigenome. We believe that together with UCB we can
much more quickly harness the power of this approach”, Oxaal said. “Duke’s
emphasis on entrepreneurship and engagement with industry has paved the way
towards research that can powerfully inform today’s drug development process.”

The Element team will continue to work in Durham closely with UCB’s genomics
research arm employing eight Duke graduated students and continuing its
collaboration with the Gersbach, Reddy, Crawford, and Wood labs at Duke.

“Duke has made a significant commitment to improving its tech transfer
function and assistance to our startup companies; therefore, we are especially
pleased to see these types of successes,” said Robin Rasor, Executive Director
of Duke’s Office of Licensing & Ventures (OLV).

On the back of this success, BME and OLV have combined their efforts to make
use of OLV’s Mentor-in-Residence (MIR) program, which work under the recently
formed Duke New Ventures.

“It is only fitting,” said Rasor, “that OLV and BME have partnered together in
the EIR and MIR programs, given that BME is one of the preeminent
entrepreneurial departments at Duke.”

“With Robin Rasor at the helm,” said Chilkoti, “Duke has new, progressive
leadership at OLV, so it was the perfect time for BME to expand our
partnership with them. These and other initiatives on campus promise exciting
times for faculty entrepreneurs at Duke.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

