

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jonathan Viventi: Engineering HD Brain Interfaces

September 26, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Named one of MIT Technology Review’s “35 Innovators Under 35” and one of
Popular Science’s “Brilliant 10,” Viventi designs new flexible electronics
that shrink sensors and simplify wiring, paving the way for a leap forward in
brain-computer interfaces.

Jonathan Viventi will join the biomedical engineering department in Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering in November 2014. After helping to
develop the technology behind 4G cellular networks, he decided to use his
knowledge of advanced wireless and electronic devices to try to tap into a
much faster network—the human brain.

For the past several decades, the technology that allows researchers to
connect to and monitor human brain function has not changed much. Electrodes
are individually, painstakingly wired to separate electronics sitting far away
inside a piece of recording equipment. The sheer volume of wiring in a
constrained space limits most devices to around 100 sensors. Although getting
up to 256 is possible, scaling up to thousands is not.

To push the field forward, Viventi has developed flexible electronics that
require a fraction of the wiring of past systems and dramatically increase the
number of sensors researchers can deploy.

“It’s like the difference between a piece of two-by-four lumber and a sheet of
paper,” explains Viventi, who comes to Duke from New York University. “They
are both made out of the same material, but have dramatically different
physical properties. We’ve done the same thing with silicon, which is normally
brittle and inflexible. But, by making silicon very thin—just 300 nanometers
thick—we can make it extremely flexible.”

Viventi has taken this thin, flexible version of silicon electronics and
embedded it into a thin sheet of plastic to create an array of 360 sensors
that requires only 39 wires. He hopes to scale the technology to thousands of
sensors across a much larger area to give researchers a much finer picture of
the electrical activity in the brain.

Once that’s accomplished, a lot of cool things can start to happen.

For example, Viventi wants to monitor the brain’s electrical activity just
before a seizure in fine resolution. By characterizing the patterns of waves
that move across the brain just before a seizure, he hopes to predict them in
real time and use his technology as a sort of neural pacemaker to stop
seizures before they start.

Another avenue of research involves motor and auditory prosthetics. Viventi
hopes his technology can extract enough information from an animal’s motor
cortex to allow it to control a prosthetic device like a robotic limb,
computer cursor or wheelchair just by thinking about it. While similar systems
already exist, they have limitations.

“The control of a robotic arm through a neural interface is currently slow and
unreliable,” said Viventi. “We’re interested in seeing if we have 1,000
sensors on the brain—or 10,000, for that matter—whether or not we can
dramatically improve the performance of these sorts of devices.”

Similarly, in auditory prosthetics, Viventi wants to use the same sensor
technology to both record and stimulate the brain. A detailed neural sensor,
for example, could help fine-tune the inputs of a cochlear implant. Or perhaps
the sensor array could even inject the perception of sound back into the brain
of a deaf person by electrically stimulating the surface of their brain.

Whatever the goal—diagnosing and heading off epileptic seizures or
revolutionizing prosthetic devices—Viventi says there is no shortage of
potential collaborators at Duke.

“Here, we have a world-class medical center right next door to the engineering
school,” said Viventi, who also fits in well with Duke’s entrepreneurial
spirit, having co-founded a company that produces electronics for modifying
racecars called N2MB Racing. “It’s amazing to have everyone in the same place.
There’s a critical mass of people here who are working on similar challenges
in neuroengineering, and my lab will benefit from their expertise.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

