

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jordan Hashemi: My Bass Connections Pathway

August 12, 2015

PhD Candidate in Electrical & Computer Engineering

Bass Connections Project Teams: Information, Child Mental Health and Society
and The Lives of Things

_Originally posted by Duke Bass Connections_

I grew up in the suburbs of Minneapolis and attended the University of
Minnesota. During my master’s studies I met Dr. Guillermo Sapiro, who
introduced me to image processing and its uses in real-world applications and
research. I was drawn to Duke for my PhD not only because of Dr. Sapiro, but
also because of Duke’s strong emphasis on interdisciplinary research.

After coming to Duke, I was fortunate to join an excellent team filled with
experts in electrical engineering, computer science, psychology and
psychiatry. We have been developing an all-in-one tablet-based application
that presents stimuli to a child and simultaneously analyzes the child’s
reactions and behaviors relevant to behavioral disorders including anxiety and
autism.

I have also been fortunate to work alongside art historians and visual studies
experts. Our team has been bringing together new technology with medieval art
to create educational and interactive exhibits for museum visitors. One
project that will be deployed in the Nasher Museum of Art involves letting
visitors “paint” medieval statues that have lost their color. Visitors can
digitally paint the statues, and we are able to project the colors onto the
statues as if they are actually painted.

Bass Connections has allowed me to further my research for my dissertation and
to greatly improve my communication capabilities. Since our team members have
vastly different backgrounds and experience levels, I have learned to
formulate and present my ideas to a wide range of audiences.

I was also given the opportunities to mentor an undergraduate and a high
school student. Not only did I gain valuable experience but the students were
given hands-on opportunities to learn. One student became so interested that
he changed his degree program so he could explore further the theoretical
basis of the work he was part of.

My advice to other graduate students is to take advantage of this unique
opportunity to work alongside experts and teachers across multiple domains.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

