

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Katul Elected a Fellow of the National Academy of Engineering

February 10, 2023

Tightly tying Duke’s environment and engineering schools together for three
decades, Katul was recognized for his advances in eco-hydrology and
environmental fluid mechanics

Gabriel “Gaby” Katul, the Theodore S. Coile Distinguished Professor of
Hydrology and Micrometeorology in Duke University’s Pratt School of
Engineering, has been named a member of the National Academy of Engineering
(NAE)—among the highest professional distinctions for an engineer.

Katul was cited “for advances in eco-hydrology and environmental fluid
mechanics,” which have helped understand transport phenomena in soil, plants
and the atmosphere. The applications of these theories have helped engineers
combat climate change-related trends in areas such as carbon dioxide
sequestration by forests, heat mitigation in urban settings and losses in
local biodiversity.

“We are incredibly proud to have received the news that Gaby was elected to
the National Academy of Engineering. He is a leading authority in ecohydrology
and has pushed the very bounds of knowledge in modeling how fluids move
through our atmosphere, soils and plant systems,” said Jerome P. Lynch the
Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “His intellectual contributions
are monumental because they are foundational to helping scientists and
engineers understand the impact a changing climate has on our habitats. We are
also indebted to Gaby for his service as a bridge between Duke Engineering and
the Nicholas School of the Environment, a partnership that is critical to Duke
leading multidisciplinary solutions that address the adverse impacts of
climate change.”

“Gaby’s pathbreaking research has influenced numerous fields of study over the
past 30 years,” added Toddi Steelman, the Stanback Dean of Duke’s Nicolas
School of the Environment, where Katul spent nearly three decades before
moving schools to Duke Engineering. “We are very fortunate to have him call
Duke his intellectual home and celebrate with him this important honor.”

> “His intellectual contributions are monumental because they are foundational
> to helping scientists and engineers understand the impact a changing climate
> has on our habitats."
>
> **Dean jerome P. lynch** | Pratt School of Engineering

Katul is part of the 2023 class of 106 new NAE members and 18 international
members announced by the academy. His election increases the number of faculty
members at Duke Engineering holding the distinction to 11.

“It is safe to state that science and engineering today are collaborative
enterprises,” Katul said. “This recognition by the NAE is really about the
process of community building to tackle complex societal problems that weld
together distinct fields and lines of inquiry.”

Katul’s visionary research has focused on the physical processes that drive
water and nutrient transport throughout the soil-plant-atmosphere system,
especially how those processes depend on turbulent flows. His work stems from
his ability to combine physical observations from disjointed fields into
single, unifying mathematical theories describing the underlying processes at
work.

A classic 2005 example of how his research can be applied to real-world
problems is a model that predicts how wind-born seeds from trees are dispersed
over long distances. The models have found important use not only in
predicting how well plants will adapt and spread in the face of warming
temperatures, but also by environmental stewards seeking to limit the spread
of transgenic crops and invasive species.

> “Gaby’s pathbreaking research has influenced numerous fields of study over
> the past 30 years. We are very fortunate to have him call Duke his
> intellectual home and celebrate with him this important honor.”
>
> **Dean toddi steelman** | Nicholas School of the ENvironment

A more recent example of Katul’s research in action used innovative models to
show how groundwater and irrigation practices might change over time to show
that Nebraska might well have 10 times the groundwater-based grain production
than Texas by 2050. Insights from such models can prepare states and nations
for the changes in food production ability that lie ahead of them due to
changes in climate. It also offers a mathematical framework that can use
current and planned space-borne remote sensing platforms to identify early
warning signals about occurrences of peak groundwater withdrawals followed by
peak annual grain production.

In another more recent instance, his theories informed a model to help predict
when forests are on the edge of large-scale die-offs due to prolonged
droughts, up to 19 months before a critical tipping point is reached. Katul
has also developed insights into the ways turbulent winds flow through both
forests and cities. Findings from this work are necessary to support local
governments seeking to mitigate the rising temperatures of climate change by
planting more trees within their city limits.

> “It is safe to state that science and engineering today are collaborative
> enterprises. This recognition by the NAE is really about the process of
> community building to tackle complex societal problems that weld together
> distinct fields and lines of inquiry.”
>
> **gaby katul**

With his recent move into Duke Engineering, Katul plans to expand his
portfolio by drawing on research into turbulent flows to develop a fundamental
mathematical understanding of disastrous failures in large, complex systems
ranging from cavitation spread in plant vessels, to material failure, to
entire societies.

He has published more than 450 peer-reviewed manuscripts with cumulative
citations exceeding 42,500 with H-index of 97, in Google Scholar. Among cited
authors in Google Scholar, Katul is ranked 2nd in micrometeorology, 7th in
atmospheric sciences, 9th in turbulence and 12th in hydrology. His previous
recognitions include the Macelwane medal and induction as a Fellow of the AGU,
the Hydrologic Science Award from the AGU, the Norbert Gerbier-Mumm
International Award from the World Meteorological Organization, the Scientific
and Technological Achievement Award from the US Environmental Protection
Agency, the Boussinesq Lecture for the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for
Science and the Arts, the John Dalton medal from the European Geosciences
Union, and the Outstanding Achievement in Biometeorology award from the
American Meteorological Society. He was also invited to present at a
Pontifical Academy of Sciences workshop on water and the environment.

As a member of NAE, Katul will help the academy carry out its mission to
provide engineering leadership in service to the nation. With 2,750 peer-
elected members and international members, the academy serves as an advisor to
the United States government and conducts independent studies examining
important engineering and technology topics.

### Duke Engineering Members of the National Academy of Engineering

  * Ana Barros (CEE, emeritus)
  * Robert Calderbank (ECE/CS)
  * Ingrid Daubechies (Math/ECE)
  * Earl H. Dowell (MEMS)
  * Kenneth C. Hall (MEMS)
  * Gabriel G. Katul (CEE)
  * Henry Petroski (CEE, emeritus)
  * Guillermo Sapiro (ECE)
  * Vahid Tarokh (ECE)
  * Mark Wiesner (CEE)
  * Blake Wilson (BME/ECE)

See pictures, read citations and more at pratt.duke.edu/nae »

## Related News

April 19, 2021

### Gaby Katul: Modeling Non-Linear Dynamics from Flowing Fluids to Falling
Empires

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

