

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jungsang Kim Named Fellow of The Optical Society

October 3, 2017

Distinction recognizes work on trapped ions for quantum computing

Jungsang Kim, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke
University, has been named a Fellow of The Optical Society of America. Kim was
cited for “research on scalable modular quantum computers and networks using
trapped ions, large-scale optical switches, quantum optics with single-photon
sources and detectors, and gigapixel-scale cameras.”

Kim has spent the past decade at Duke working to translate advances in
controlling the quantum states of individual atoms into scalable, reproducible
components for a quantum computer. Quantum computers ditch the traditional
binary bits of information for “qubits” that can occupy many different states
at the same time. This gives quantum computers the ability to solve types of
problems that would take traditional computer years to solve, if they could
solve them at all. The qubits in Kim’s quantum computer are individually
trapped ions—atoms with electrons stripped away to give it a positive electric
charge. That charge allows researchers to suspend the atoms using an
electromagnetic field in an ultra-high vacuum environment. Kim and his
colleagues then use precise lasers to manipulate their quantum states. Kim and
colleague Christopher Monroe at the University of Maryland have secured more
than $60 million in grants to transition these ideas into large, scalable
quantum computers.

At Duke, Kim has also collaborated with David Brady, the Michael J.
Fitzpatrick Professor of Photonics, to construct gigapixel-scale cameras.
Prior to coming to Duke, Kim led a team of engineers at Bell Labs to realize
the world’s largest all-optical switch based on micro-electromechanical
systems (MEMS) mirror technology.

Fellows of The Optical Society are nominated by their peers as members of the
society who have served with distinction in the advancement of optics and
photonics. Founded in 1916, The Optical Society is the leading professional
organization for scientists, engineers, students and business leaders who fuel
discoveries, shape real-life applications and accelerate achievements in the
science of light.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

