

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kris Hauser: Keeping Robots Upright

September 2, 2014

Expert in automated decision-making joins Duke’s growing team of robotics
specialists

Kris Hauser, an expert in computer science, informatics and robotics, joined
both the electrical and computer engineering department and the mechanical
engineering and materials science department in Duke University’s Pratt School
of Engineering on August 3, 2014. Part of a steadily expanding robotics group
on campus, he focuses on the planning and control of autonomous robots.

To make a humanoid robot smart enough to navigate a home or in outdoor
terrain, for example, it needs software that has both planning and control.
Planning refers to the long-term forward thinking required to navigate a
course; control refers to very fast adjustments made in response to changes in
the environment, much like reflexes. Both are imperative for the future
success of robotics and writing successful software will take a multitude of
talented individuals.

“Robotics is an exciting and interdisciplinary field,” said Hauser, who joins
Duke’s faculty from Indiana University. “I came to Duke because I felt like
the potential for collaborations from different fields is almost endless. At
least 10 people immediately come to mind who I could collaborate with very
closely.”

Hauser’s research is exemplified by a recent DARPA challenge he participated
in. As part of a $60 million project to develop robots that can replace human
workers in dangerous disaster scenarios, Hauser helped design a small humanoid
robot for the ladder climbing event. The first trial last December saw the
robot successfully navigate eight of the nine steps, ahead of any other
American team.

Besides building robots that can navigate rough terrain, Hauser is also
interested in intelligent vehicles, like the Google car that can navigate
streets on its own. He is also trying to introduce more intelligence into
human-controlled robots. For example, medical robots controlled by surgeons
require dozens or hundreds of hours of training to operate. Any software that
could level out this steep learning curve would be a valuable advancement.

“I’d also love to start a project to build a rock-climbing robot,” said
Hauser, who recently took up the hobby in his free time. Laughing, he adds,
“I’m also an experienced skier, but I don’t see a lot of opportunities to
start up a skiing robot project in eastern North Carolina.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

Hauser has spent most of his life in California, where the nearby Sierra
Nevadas presented more skiing opportunities. After growing up in Los Angeles,
he earned dual undergraduate degrees in computer science and mathematics from
UC Berkeley and a PhD in computer science from Stanford University. He then
returned to UC Berkeley as a postdoctoral fellow in robotic automation until
2009, when he joined the faculty at Indiana University.

Since Indiana does not have an engineering department, however, Hauser found
himself looking for new opportunities. At Duke, he joins a growing trend of
engineering faculty hired within the past two years with expertise in
robotics.

“It’s shaping up to be a nice group that I think will be very exciting in the
future,” said Hauser. “We’re hoping to build Duke Robotics into an
internationally recognized brand.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

