

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Labs on Chips

April 6, 2014 | By Dennis Lynch

Talking Microfluidic Biochips with Duke ECE Professors Krishnendu Chakrabarty
and Richard Fair

_Originally published in DukEngineer_

Technology moves at a breakneck pace, with advances that make the mind spin.
Duke University is keeping in step with this technological revolution, but in
ways that might surprise the casual observer. For example, one intrepid group
of researchers led by Krishnendu Chakrabarty, PhD, and Richard Fair, PhD, have
expanded the realm of electrical engineering into the biological world with
the research and development of microfluidic biochips.

These “lab-on-a-chip” devices can actually “learn how to test for specific
analytes through a decision-tree architecture,” according to Fair, one of the
team’s lead researchers. They also have the ability to “electrically control
the transport and processing of ‘biochemical payload’ in the form of droplets
by applying discrete voltages to transport lines.” The team has taken
advantage of this unique mechanism to develop software to control the chips’
activity.

What exactly does this mean? According to Chakrabarty’s 2010 paper “Digital
Microfluidic Biochips: A Vision for Functional Diversity and More than Moore,”
their technological innovation enables “the convergence of electronics with
the life sciences,” allowing for more precise forms of measurement,
diagnostics and electronic integration with biological forms. The chips,
“compared to conventional laboratory procedures … offer the advantages of
higher sensitivity, lower cost … system integration and less likelihood of
human error.” When dealing with biological payloads that could facilitate the
discovery of new drugs or the diagnosis of biological problems, this low-cost,
low-error device offers a world of possibilities.

The practical applications of these discoveries and demonstrations are
“numerous,” as Fair puts it. Not only can these biochips learn to test an
unknown molecule, which would be a major benefit to a scientific community
looking to analyze and discover materials on the molecular level, but the team
has a “target application [that is] rapid detection of bacterial infections in
blood.”

The fact that these chips can perform molecular testing for analysis and
diagnosis is very important in the current landscape of the scientific
community, given the costs and work required to obtain molecular diagnostic
data. Fair estimated that “90 percent of the cost and 95 percent of the time
needed to obtain [the diagnostic data] today is sample preparation, including
collection and transportation.” These “lab-on-a-chip” biochips would
drastically cut down those costs. With a faster, more efficient method of
collecting diagnostic data on a molecular level comes new possibilities for
everything from drug synthesis to bacterial diagnostics, blood composition
analysis to biological culture analysis.

It can be a bit mind-numbing to think of all the potential outcomes from this
line of research. A microchip that integrates the electrical and biological,
with the ability to learn, diagnose and analyze right at the site of interest,
truly seems something left to the pages of an author’s futuristic novel.
However, all of this and more is currently under research and development
right within the walls of Duke University. That doesn’t mean, however, that
the research will be contained to Duke’s labs. When asked about future plans
the team has for their invention, Fair asserted that the team “would like to
put a programmable/adaptive microfluidic platform in the hands of [other]
researchers. This way we all learn more about applications for an adaptive
lab-on-a-chip.” With a more widespread scope for research, the potential for
these chips seems truly endless; what began in a lab at Duke University could
one day become a standard analysis device in labs and hospitals around the
world.

_Dennis Lynch is a sophomore pursuing majors in computer science and
electrical and computer engineering._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

