

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Listening to Blood

July 27, 2018 | By Mara Catherine Shurgot

Adapting technology to image blood vessels in skin diseease

_From the Duke University School of Medicine Alumni News Magazine_

Small vessel vasculitis—inflammation of the small blood vessels—appears as a
stain of tiny, red dots covering the skin that, depending on the severity, can
evolve into painful pustules or ulcers. In some patients, it may even reflect
inflammation in internal organs.

Diagnosis usually requites a skin biopsy, which involves cutting a small piece
of skin. This can usually be done as an easy bedside procedure, although
certain sites, such as areas around the nails and the tips of fingers and
toes, or certain patients may be more prone to poor wound healing and
complications from the procedure.

Adela Rambi G. Cardones, MD, HS'06-'09, associate professor of dermatology,
wanted to create a device that could capture an image of at least a centimeter
of skin area through a quick, non-invasive process. She wanted to detect the
speed, color, and amount of blood flowing through the small blood vessels in
order to make a fast, painless, accurate diagnosis.

Junjie Yao, PhD, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, develops
photoacoustic imaging: the conversion of light beamed through tissue into
ultrasound waves that are then analyzed to create high-resolution images.
Photoacoustic imaging can reveal a tissue's anatomical, functional, and
metabolic properties, with specificity at the molecular and neuronal level.

Cardones and Yao teamed up to create a handheld device that could provide
high-resolution imaging of the tiny blood vessels in the skin to diagnose
vasculitis. One of the key design inspirations came from, of all places, the
supermarket.

"We were inspired by the handheld devices that scan bar codes in grocery
stores," says Yao. "The devices use a polygon mirror and a laser diode to
quickly 'read' the product information, and we adapted this concept to build a
prototype handheld photoacoustic device to 'read' the skin. We printed a 3D
polygon mirror, added a laser and an ultrasound transducer, and then put
everything in waterproof frame to detect the emitting ultrasound signals."

The lightweight, handheld prototype is about the size of a flashlight. With
their photoacoustic imaging device, Cardones and Yao can provide functional
sampling of the skin—a photoacoustic biopsy—that clearly identifies the
organization and oxygenation of tiny blood vessels in the tissue.

With functional imaging of up to 13 mm across and 5 mm in depth, there are
numerous other potential applications of their device, such as the study of
skin tumors, brain disorders, and eye diseases.

Cardones and Yao hope to win IRB approval and begin clinical testing of their
device. Beyond that, they see potential for commercialization and will be
working with MEDx and the FDA to navigate the process of safety testing and
bringing the device to market.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

