

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cells Construct Living Composite Polymers for Biomedical Applications

June 10, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Initial demonstration builds drug delivery system that protects the gut
microbiome from antibiotics

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated that a class of
interwoven composite materials called semi-interpenetrating polymer networks
(sIPNs) can be produced by living cells. The approach could make these
versatile materials more biologically compatible for biomedical applications
such as time-delayed drug delivery systems.

The research appears online on June 8 in the journal Nature Communications.

The concept of sIPNs has been around for more than 100 years and has been used
in automotive parts, medical devices, molding compounds and engineering
plastics. The general idea is for one or more polymers to assemble around
another polymer scaffold in such a way that they become interlocked. Even
though the polymers are not chemically bonded, they cannot be pulled apart and
form a new material with properties greater than the simple sum of its parts.

Traditional methods for manufacturing sIPNs typically involve producing the
constituent parts called monomers and mixing them together in the right
chemical conditions to control their assembly into large networks in a process
called polymerization.

“When it works, it’s a fantastic platform that can incorporate different
functionalities into the self-assembled layer for biomedical or environmental
applications,” said Lingchong You, professor of biomedical engineering at
Duke. “But the process is often not as biocompatible as you might want. So we
thought why not use living cells to synthesize the second layer to make it as
biocompatible as possible?”

In the new paper, Zhuojun Dai, a former postdoc in the You lab who is now an
associate professor at the Shenzhen Institute of Synthetic Biology, uses a
platform that the lab has been developing for several years called “swarmbots”
to do just that.

The swarmbots are living cells that are programmed to produce biological
molecules within their walls and then explode once their population reaches a
certain density. In this case, they’re programmed to produce monomers called
elastin-like polypeptides (ELPs) fused to functional features called SpyTag
and SpyCatcher. These two molecular structures form a lock-and-key system,
allowing the ELPs to self-assemble into a polymer chain when mixed. As they
grow, these polymers entangle themselves with the polymeric microcapsules
containing the cells to form sIPNs.

Each monomer can contain multiple SpyTags or SpyCatchers and can also be fused
to proteins that generate a readout or have specific functions. It’s sort of
like making a chain-link fence out of many tiny charm bracelets that have room
for clasps and charms.

The researchers first program the cells to fill this accessorizable feature
with a fluorescent protein to prove that the system can lock them into place.
After that successful demonstration, they turn their attention to engineering
a useful drug delivery system with their new invention.

“You could replace the fluorescent marker with anything that has a function
you want to feature,” said You. “We decided to touch on antibiotics because
it’s one of the other focuses of our lab.”

Beta-lactam antibiotics, such as penicillin and its derivatives, are some of
the most commonly used antibiotics in the world. They’re also often overused
and can have negative effects such as destroying the natural microbiome that
lives within our guts.

To demonstrate one way in which their new cell-built sIPNs could be useful,
the researchers fill the accessorizable spot with beta-lactamase, which can
degrade beta-lactam antibiotics. By injecting the newly functionalized sIPNs
into mice, the researchers showed the platform could slowly release the
otherwise short-lived protective molecule to help the mice’s gut microbiomes
ward off negative side effects from the antibiotics.

“Nobody has used living cells as a factory to produce monomers in real-time
for sIPNs before,” said You. “The proof-of-principle demonstration shows that,
not only can we fabricate these types of functional materials with live cells,
but they can exhibit medically relevant functions.”

This research was supported by the National Key Research and Development
Program of China (ZD: 2018YFA0903000, ZD: 2020YFA0908100, LD:
2019YFA09006700), the U.S. Army Research Ofﬁce (LY: W911NF-14-1-0490), the
National Institutes of Health (LY: 2R01-GM098642, 1RO1AI25604), a David and
Lucile Packard Fellowship (LY), Shenzhen Peacock Team Project (ZD:
KQTD20180413181837372), and the National Natural Science Foundation of China
(ZD:32071427, LD: 31971513).

CITATION: “Living Fabrication of Functional Semi-Interpenetrating Polymeric
Materials,” Zhuojun Dai, Xiaoyu Yang, Feilun Wu, Lihua Wang, Kun Xiang ,
Pengcheng Li, Qingqing Lv, Jinhui Tang, Anders Dohlman, Lei Dai, Xiling Shen &
Lingchong You. Nature Communications, June 8, 2021. DOI:
10.1038/s41467-021-23812-7

## Related News

September 17, 2019

### Programmable Swarmbots Help Make Flexible Biological Tools

February 29, 2016

### Engineered Swarmbots Rely on Peers for Survival

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

