

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# From London with Machine Learning

April 28, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Duke’s 2016-17 Vest Scholar, Jure Sokolic, works on the global Grand Challenge
of engineering new tools for scientific discovery

Computers are much better than humans at finding patterns and nuanced
relationships in large datasets, but they’d probably be even better if the
humans actually understood how they did it.

As it stands, machine learning algorithms are a “black box”: researchers know
what goes in and what comes out, but not as much about how the inner workings
of such programs affect their performance, such as the minimum number of
training examples that can be provided while maintaining accuracy.

Sokolic is looking at the underlying mathematical fundamentals to try to
discover why these programs work. Along the way, he’s investigating questions
such as how researchers might be able to teach machine-learning programs to
recognize objects from any vantage point—something they are not currently good
at.

This question is especially important for facial recognition algorithms, such
as those used by Guillermo Sapiro, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Sokolic’s advisor at Duke. Since
September 2016, Jure Sokolic has been working with Sapiro and his research
team to better understand how machine learning is being used in their
research.

Born, raised and college-educated in Slovenia, Sokolic is currently working on
a PhD at University College London, and has been expanding his research and
perspectives in machine learning here in Durham as Duke University’s 2016-17
Vest Scholar.

“I applied to Duke because I knew my work aligns with the interests of
professors here,” said Sokolic, who plans to return to London to defend his
dissertation before pursuing a career in industry. “It’s been exciting because
Professor Sapiro has a broad spectrum of work from theories to applications. I
can learn a lot from him, not just about research, but about the implications
of our research, such as concerns for people’s privacy when we use such
methods.”

“Thanks to Jure’s presence, we are finding some very interesting support for
deep learning theories that we could not find without him,” said Sapiro. “This
Vest Scholarship has thereby been critical and will serve for a very long-term
collaboration with University College London.”

“The Vest Scholarship is serving as an opportunity to strengthen current ties
between UCL and Duke,” echoed Miguel Rodrigues, Sokolic’s advisor back in
London. “The know-how acquired by Jure under the guidance of Professor Sapiro
will be critical to expand new research directions within our group at UCL.”

The Charles M. Vest NAE Grand Challenges for Engineering International Scholar
program is reminiscent of a reverse Rhodes Scholarship. The award gives
international graduate students the opportunity to spend a year at one of ten
universities in the United States conducting research addressing the U.S.
National Academy of Engineering’s Grand Challenges for Engineering.

Sokolic’s research is addressing the Grand Challenge of “Engineer the Tools of
Scientific Discovery,” by delving into the fundamentals of how deep learning
works. An emerging technique based on neural networks, deep learning is a type
of machine learning where computers teach themselves to recognize patterns in
data.

“The classic example is distinguishing between pictures of cats and dogs,”
said Sokolic. “You can train a deep learning algorithm to do this by showing
it many pictures and telling it which is which. The computer will then
determine the parameters that distinguish cats from dogs on its own and will
correctly predict the answer for future content automatically.”

Sapiro has several projects under way that use machine learning, including an
app leveraging Apple’s ResearchKit that is exploring how mobile devices might
be used to screen for autism in young children.

“I don’t work on those projects directly,” said Sokolic. “But I talk to the
members of the lab and try to get ideas and think about the problems they are
facing.”

Sokolic says the experience has been very worthwhile for him, and not just
because of the generous Vest Scholar package that provides everything he needs
for a full year studying in the United States.

“I think the biggest gain is being able to be actively involved with the
Sapiro research group and with other researchers at the Information Initiative
at Duke,” said Sokolic. “This allows us to exchange ideas and explore problems
on a daily basis. It has given me an additional perspective on my work, which
I will be able to bring back to my colleagues in London.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

