

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Look Forward with a Legacy Gift

May 1, 2013 | By Robert W. "Judge" Carr, Jr. E'71

It's a great time to consider a charitable bequest to Duke Engineering

_From_ DukEngineer _2013  
_

Several issues ago I wrote to you about what a great time it was to consider a
charitable bequest to Duke University for the Pratt School of Engineering.
Well, it’s an even better time now.

As you may know, we are in the early stages of the Duke Forward campaign,
which aims to raise $3.25 billion to enrich the Duke experience, activate
Duke’s power for the world and sustain the university’s momentum (for more
information, go to **dukeforward.duke.edu** ).

This comprehensive campaign includes a new “legacy gifts” initiative and we
urge you to take this opportunity as an additional way to support your alma
mater.

The university has set an ambitious goal of 1,200 new legacy gifts during the
campaign and the School of Engineering’s fair share of this number is 240. We
hope that you will help us with this initiative by including a gift for Duke
University in your long-term plans.

A legacy gift allows you to make a pledge to Duke that will take effect in the
future. Many of these gifts offer a “tax wise” way for you to support the
Pratt School while making a more significant gift than might otherwise be
possible. For example, you can include a bequest in your will or trust, fund a
life income gift such as a charitable gift annuity or charitable remainder
trust, leave an IRA or other tax-deferred plan (Duke will receive 100 percent
of the assets, whereas an individual might net less than 50 percent after
taxes), or fund a charitable lead trust to reduce estate or gift taxes (learn
more at **giving.duke.edu/giftplanning** ). Duke’s Gift Planning Office can
provide sample bequest language, beneficiary designation information for an
IRA or retirement account, and other gift information for you to review and
approve with your advisors.

You can acknowledge your current plans to benefit Duke in the future by
sending us a letter that outlines the details of your gift or by simply
completing a “Confirmation of Your Legacy Gift” form (available from our
office). Signing this form does NOT bind you or your estate in any way. It
simply provides us with guidance as to your wishes and helps ensure that
endowment or other documentation is in proper order. After completing the
form, please send us an original and keep a copy with your other estate
documents.

An endowment is a permanent fund that is often established in the donor’s
name. It makes distributions each year for purposes directed the donor, such
as a scholarship, fellowship, professorship, or unrestricted use. If you
already have an endowment that benefits some part of the Pratt School, you can
direct that your legacy gift be added to your existing endowment. Likewise,
you may choose to fund a new endowment with your estate gift or leave it
“unrestricted” to be used for the most pressing needs of the school when the
gift is received.

When you confirm your legacy gift, you will be invited to become a member of
the Duke University Heritage Society. If you elect to join, your name will be
listed with other alumni and friends who have established a legacy gift for
Duke University. You will also be invited to Heritage Society events and
receive a certificate that is suitable for framing (see photo).

As always, we are happy to talk with you about planned giving options and to
help answer any questions you may have. Thank you for considering this as one
more way that you might support your school in the Duke Forward campaign.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

