

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Investing in Duke Engineering: The Lord Foundation of North Carolina

November 13, 2019

Since 1984, the Lord Foundation of North Carolina has given $47 million to
advance Duke Engineering teaching and research

From first-year students learning the fundamentals of engineering design to
senior faculty pursuing new possibilities in quantum computing, tissue repair
and solar energy, it’s hard to think of a person or program at Duke
Engineering today that hasn’t been touched in some way by a gift made almost
four decades ago.

The Lord Foundation of North Carolina (LFNC), established in 1984 to promote
excellence in research, teaching and student programs in engineering and
related disciplines at Duke, has contributed more than $47 million to advance
those goals over the years. The funding has supported the launch of nationally
recognized educational programs, state-of-the-art research facilities to
attract top faculty and enhance graduate training, and a host of hands-on
learning experiences for engineering students.

Read about the new $261 million Lord Foundation distribution in support of
engineering and financial aid at Duke »

“Duke Engineering has been on an incredible upward trajectory across nearly
every measure in recent years, and the Lord Foundation has provided a
significant boost to our success,” said Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of
Engineering. “By providing a reliable source of funding over nearly four
decades, the foundation has expanded our capacity to grow, pursue exciting new
ideas and offer our students the kinds of personalized learning experiences
that have come to define a Duke Engineering education.”

* * *

## Across-the-Board Investments

Lord Foundation of North Carolina awards have supported Duke Engineering
initiatives including:

  * **»** Funding to launch and scale EGR 101: First-Year Design, which
    challenges student teams to design and build prototype solutions for
    client problems—leading to real-world impact and even two patents pending
    in the past year

  * **»** Funding for student clubs such as Duke Engineers for International
    Development, Duke Smart Home, Engineering World Health and Duke Electric
    Vehicles (which won Guinness World Records for vehicle efficiency in 2018
    and 2019)

  * **»** Support for symposia, seminars and graduate research fellowships
    through the Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics, a cross-campus research
    and education initiative that brings together engineers, scientists and
    physicians advancing light-based technologies for medicine, energy,
    communications and more

  * **»** Funding for Pratt Research Fellowships—18-month mentored research
    experiences for undergraduates. About 30 students annually graduate as
    Pratt Fellows; many publish research and garner other honors for their
    work.

  * **»** Specialized equipment for new faculty starting up research labs in
    critical areas such as quantum computing, high-performance solar energy
    technologies and targeted drug delivery. Duke Engineering's faculty has
    grown by nearly 50 percent over the past 15 years.

  * **»** Establishment of the Thomas Lord Professorship in Engineering (held
    by ultrasound pioneer Olaf von Ramm) and Lord-Chandran Professorship in
    Engineering (held by lab-on-a-chip developer and entrepreneur Richard
    Fair)

* * *

In recent years, LFNC has awarded more than $1.5 million annually to support
wide-ranging initiatives across Duke Engineering, from undergraduate research
opportunities in the Duke Smart Home to high-tech equipment for newly hired
faculty starting up their research labs (see slideshow). In addition to these
awards totaling over $29 million since 1985, the foundation contributed $18
million in the early 2000s to support expanding and modernizing the Pratt
School of Engineering’s space for research and teaching.

LFNC is one of four Lord Foundations established in the 1980s by the late
Thomas Lord, chairman of the board of the privately held Lord Corporation.
Also benefitting are the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and the University of Southern California.

With the acquisition of the Cary, N.C.-based LORD Corporation by Parker
Hannifin, the foundations shared a distribution of more than $1 billion from
the proceeds of the sale, leading to a distribution of approximately $261
million each to Duke, Cleveland Clinic, MIT and USC.

In addition to supporting engineering education and research and undergraduate
financial aid, the new funds will enable the Pratt School of Engineering to
continue the annual program awards previously provided through LFNC.

* * *

## From Trolley Cars to 21st-Century Tech

A History of the Lord Foundation & Duke Engineering

View text version of timeline

  * 1924: LORD Corporation founded in Erie, Pennsylvania by Hugh Lord, a
    patent lawyer who invented a way to bond rubber to metal—solving major
    challenges facing the young automotive industry. The technology was first
    used in General Electric trolley cars and later in industrial engine
    mountings for everything from automobiles to aircraft.
  * 1970s: Mechanical engineer George Pearsall, dean of engineering at Duke
    from 1969-74 and 1982-83, consults for LORD Corp., now a global
    manufacturing company helmed by board chairman Thomas Lord and president
    Donald Alstadt.
  * 1979: After considering locations including Palo Alto, Cambridge,
    Pittsburgh and Austin, Texas, LORD directors relocate its corporate
    research laboratories to Cary, NC. Alstadt later notes, “Duke University,
    in view of its obvious capabilities, its private charter, and its obvious
    dedication to excellence and preeminence, was probably the single most
    influential factor in our decision.”
  * 1980: Alstadt joins the Duke Engineering Board of Visitors, serving for 24
    years. He receives the Engineering Alumni Association’s distinguished
    service award in 1985 and chairs the school’s development committee from
    2002-2004.
  * 1982: Thomas Lord establishes the JURA Corporation as a holding company
    for LORD Corporation stock, followed by charitable foundations with major
    equity interests in JURA. A socially responsible entrepreneur, Lord
    selects non-profit research institutions that share his vision of
    continuous learning and innovation as beneficiaries.
  * 1984: Thomas Lord chooses Duke University as a beneficiary based on part
    on Alstadt’s recommendation. On April 24, 1984, The Lord Foundation of
    North Carolina (LFNC) is established to support research, teaching and
    programming in engineering and related programs at Duke University, with
    Alstadt and engineering dean Earl Dowell signing the articles of
    incorporation.
  * 1985: LFNC awards its first round of funding to support projects including
    upgrades to undergraduate teaching laboratories and repair of the school’s
    high-speed wind tunnel.
  * 2019: At 35 years, The Lord Foundation of North Carolina has contributed
    more than $47 million in support of engineering and related programs at
    Duke. With the sale of LORD Corp. in November 2019, yielding over $1
    billion to support research institutions chosen by Thomas Lord, Duke
    receives a distribution of $261 million. In addition to supporting
    undergraduate financial aid and advancing engineering education and
    research, the allocation will enable the Pratt School of Engineering to
    continue the annual program awards previously provided through LFNC.

* * *

Thomas Lord originally selected Duke’s engineering school as a beneficiary of
his trust on the recommendation of LORD Corp.’s then-President Donald Alstadt,
followed by conversations with Duke Trustee Fitzgerald “Jerry” Hudson E’46
(namesake of Hudson Hall), Engineering Dean Earl Dowell, President Terry
Sanford and Chancellor Keith Brodie.

A member of Duke Engineering’s Board of Visitors, Alstadt saw both encouraging
strengths and great potential in the ambitious young university. As he
explained in a 1985 column for _DukEngineer Magazine_ , “Duke is on its own
fast track....[it is] sitting on the threshold of becoming a world-class
university.”

On April 24, 1984, The Lord Foundation of North Carolina was established with
a gift of stock holdings worth approximately $40 million.

As then-dean Earl Dowell recalls, “The engineering school’s total endowment
when I arrived was $2 or $3 million, so this foundation endowment was far and
away larger than any gift the school had ever received. The dividends over the
years had a very significant impact on the school and vastly expanded what we
could do.”

Since 1985, Duke Engineering has grown to include 1,260 undergraduate and
1,280 graduate students, with more than 15,000 alumni worldwide. The Pratt
School is currently ranked No. 18 among U.S. engineering colleges by _U.S.News
& World Report_, with a biomedical engineering program ranked No. 3 and
environmental engineering No. 10.

With 156 faculty—up 25 percent in the past five years alone—external research
funding has more than doubled over the past decade, reaching $96 million in
new awards in FY19. Duke Engineering faculty now lead 10 major externally
funded research centers in areas including quantum computing, epigenetics,
metamaterials, environmental health, materials discovery, security and global
sanitation. Currently, the school ranks #13 among all U.S. engineering schools
in research funding per faculty member.

> “Duke Engineering has been on an incredible upward trajectory across nearly
> every measure in recent years, and the Lord Foundation has provided a
> significant boost to our success.”
>
> Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering

## Related News

November 13, 2019

### Historic $261 Million Distribution to Benefit Education, Research,
Financial Aid at Duke

August 07, 2018

### Duke Students Break Guinness World Record for Fuel Efficiency

April 19, 2018

### Spring Break 2018: Environmental Research at Duke Kunshan University

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

