

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Low-Cost Retinal Scanner Could Help Prevent Blindness Worldwide

June 28, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Re-engineered device offers clinically accurate eye scans at a fraction of the
cost

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed a low-cost, portable
optical coherence tomography (OCT) scanner that promises to bring the vision-
saving technology to underserved regions throughout the United States and
abroad.

Thanks to a redesigned, 3D-printed spectrometer, the scanner is 15 times
lighter and smaller than current commercial systems and is made from parts
costing less than a tenth the retail price of commercial systems—all without
sacrificing imaging quality.

In its first clinical trial, the new OCT scanner produced images of 120
retinas that were 95 percent as sharp as those taken by current commercial
systems, which was sufficient for accurate clinical diagnosis.

The results appear online on June 28 in Translational Vision Science &
Technology, an ARVO journal.

In use since the 1990s, OCT imaging has become the standard of care for the
diagnosis of many retinal diseases including macular degeneration and diabetic
retinopathy, as well as for glaucoma. However, OCT is rarely included as part
of a standard screening exam since machines can cost more than
$100,000—meaning that usually only larger eye centers have them.

“Once you have lost vision, it’s very difficult to get it back, so the key to
preventing blindness is early detection,” said Adam Wax, professor of
biomedical engineering at Duke. “Our goal is to make OCT drastically less
expensive so more clinics can afford the devices, especially in global health
settings.”

OCT is the optical analogue of ultrasound, which works by sending sound waves
into tissues and measuring how long they take to come back. But because light
is so much faster than sound, measuring time is more difficult. To time the
light waves bouncing back from the tissue being scanned, OCT devices use a
spectrometer to determine how much their phase has shifted compared to
identical light waves that have travelled the same distance but have not
interacted with tissue.

The primary technology enabling the smaller, less expensive OCT device is a
new type of spectrometer designed by Wax and his former graduate student
Sanghoon Kim. Traditional spectrometers are made mostly of precisely cut metal
components and direct light through a series of lenses, mirrors and
diffraction slits shaped like a W. While this setup provides a high degree of
accuracy, slight mechanical shifts caused by bumps or even temperature changes
can create misalignments.

Wax’s design, however, takes the light on a circular path within a housing
made mostly from 3D-printed plastic. Because the spectrometer light path is
circular, any expansions or contractions due to temperature changes occur
symmetrically, balancing themselves out to keep the optical elements aligned.
The device also uses a larger detector at the end of the light’s journey to
make misalignments less likely.

Traditional OCT machines weigh more than 60 pounds, take up an entire desk and
cost anywhere between $50,000 and $120,000. The new OCT device weighs four
pounds, is about the size of a lunch box and, Wax expects, will be sold for
less than $15,000.

“Right now OCT devices sit in their own room and require a PhD scientist to
tweak them to get everything working just right,” said Wax. “Ours can just sit
on a shelf in the office and be taken down, used and put back without
problems. We’ve scanned people in a Starbucks with it.”

In the new study, J. Niklas Ulrich, retina surgeon and associate professor of
ophthalmology at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine, put the
new OCT scanner to the test against a commercial instrument produced by
Heidelberg Engineering. He performed clinical imaging on both eyes of 60
patients, half from healthy volunteers and half with some sort of retinal
disease.

To compare the images produced by both machines, the researchers used
contrast-to-noise ratio—a measure often used to determine image quality in
medical imaging. The results showed that, by this metric, the low-cost,
portable OCT scanner provided useful contrast that was only 5.6 percent less
than that of the commercial machine, which is still good enough to allow for
clinical diagnostics.

“I have been very impressed by the quality of images from the low-cost
device—it is absolutely comparable to our standard commercial machines,” said
Ulrich. “It obviously lacks some bells and whistles of our $100k+ OCT
scanners, but allows for accurate diagnosis of structural retinal disease as
well as monitoring of treatment success. The setup is quick and easy with a
small footprint, allowing the device to perform well in smaller satellite
offices. I hope that the development of this low-cost OCT will improve
patients’ access to OCT technology and contribute to saving sight in North
Carolina as well as nationally and worldwide.“

Wax is commercializing the device through a startup company called Lumedica,
which is already producing and selling first-generation instruments for
research applications. The company hopes to secure venture backing in the near
future and is also negotiating potential licensing deals with outside
companies.

“There’s a lot of interest from people who want to take OCT to new parts of
the globe as well as to underserved populations right here in the U.S.,” said
Wax. “With the growing number of cases of diabetic retinopathy in places like
the United States, India and China, we hope we can save a lot of people’s
sight by drastically increasing access to this technology.”

This work was funded by the National Institutes of Health (R01 CA210544) and
the Duke-Coulter Translational Partnership.

“First Clinical Application of Low-cost OCT.” Ge Song, Kengyeh Chu, Sanghoon
Kim, Michael Crose, Brian Cox, Evan T. Jelly, J. Niklas Ulrich, Adam Wax.
Translational Vision Science &Technology, 2019. DOI: 10.1167/tvst.8.3.61

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

