

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Lucas Johnston: Preventing Injuries through Orthopaedic Biomechanics

October 8, 2014 | By Lucas Johnston

##### NAE Grand Challenge Scholar Profile

  * **Major:** Mechanical Engineering and Biomedical Engineering
  * **Grand Challenge:** Engineering Better Medicines
  * **GC Advisor:** Dr. Lou Defrate
  * **Project Title:** Applications of Orthopedic Biomechanics for Injury
    Prevention, Analysis, and Treatment

As a member of the Grand Challenge Scholars Program, I am integrating all of
my experience in technical research, interdisciplinary learning, service,
entrepreneurship and global perspective to expand my knowledge and focus my
capabilities to help solve the Grand Challenge of Engineering Better Medicines
and Medical Technology. This is yet another building block through which I
hope to use my double major in mechanical and biomedical engineering to make
life better for someone.

> "My experience as a Grand Challenge Scholar has helped me to discover and
> define a life purpose, find endless exciting applications and uncover a
> personal passion for my trade."

I have focused my research on analyzing the applications of orthopedic
biomechanics for injury prevention, analysis and treatment. I have performed
research in the Duke K-Lab with total joint replacement patients, studying
their recovery process while analyzing the risk of ACL injury and different
ACL reconstruction methods in the Duke Orthopedic Bioengineering Lab.
Presently, I am working in a summer internship at GE Healthcare, where I have
reinforced my knowledge from school with industry experience and the
entrepreneurial process of taking a new technology from idea to a successful
market outcome. To supplement my education and work experience, I have also
traveled to El Salvador with Engineers without Borders to design, build and
implement a pedestrian bridge in an underprivileged community.

My experience as a Grand Challenge Scholar has helped me to discover and
define a life purpose, find endless exciting applications and uncover a
personal passion for my trade. Through this program, I have expanded my
education with interdisciplinary coursework that will enhance my understanding
of medicine and disease. I have also learned the market practices that I need
to master to achieve the practicality of the new technologies I plan to build
or improve on to help prevent and/or treat disease and injury. Finally, the
combination of my academic work, research, service, industry experience and
global exposure have fueled my desire and forged my determination to use my
talents and skills in a very practical manner to give something back and to
make a real difference in the world.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

