

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Making Summer Matter: Improving Health Care Through Engineering World Health

July 30, 2013

Helping hospitals and clinics repair medical equipment at the National
Hospital de Quetzaltenango in Xela

On a recent trip to Guatemala, Duke Engineering student Ben Snowdon cooked
rellenitos de plátnos, took salsa lessons and visited some local hot springs.

But all that was just a bonus on top of the bigger purpose of his trip:
helping hospitals and clinics repair medical equipment at the National
Hospital de Quetzaltenango in Xela through Duke-Engineering World Health
(EWH).

EWH is a non-profit group that brings biomedical engineering expertise to
communities of the developing world who lack resources.

Snowden, who is president of the Duke chapter of EWH, was joined by Duke
students Bianca Bracht, Justin Fu and Anurag Dulapalli on the trip.

“The goal of the trip was to help a poor hospital in Guatemala repair and
maintain their medical equipment,” said Robert Malkin, founder and director of
Duke-Engineering World Health.

During the trip, the students helped the local staff work on 18 pieces of
medical equipment, placing 15 back into service. The equipment included
sophisticated monitors, electrosurgical units, ventilators and others the
technical staff at the hospital is not equipped or trained to maintain or
repair.

“I learned a lot about fixing medical equipment and how to debug real-world
electrical problems. Seeing concepts we learned about in our circuits classes
put to use in the medical devices was an exciting and informative experience,”
Snowdon said.

The students worked as a team on all the projects. They took turns diagnosing
issues, repairing equipment, cleaning equipment and keeping records of all the
equipment they worked on.

“Guatemala was an amazing learning experience,” Fu said. “Working with
experienced biomedical technicians taught me how to attack a problem in a
systematic manner to isolate the issue with a piece of medical equipment.”

“Staying with a host family gave me an authentic taste of Guatemalan culture,”
he added.

After their experience, the students will encourage their peers to work as
part of the program because it is a great opportunity to learn about medical
equipment, have an impact on developing the world and have fun at the same
time.

“I cannot think of a more enjoyable way to learn about medical equipment than
my trip to Guatemala,” Snowdon said. “We were able to take apart and work on
far more equipment than we would be allowed to in the U.S. We had great
guidance from medical technicians Billy Teninty and Joe Leier, who taught us a
great deal about fixing a variety of problems.”

“And the food was excellent. I had some of the best tacos in my life,” Snowdon
said.

The staff at the National Hospital de Quetzaltenango were thrilled that the
students had so much equipment back in service. The director of the hospital
gave each of the students a certificate as thanks and invited them to return
for an even longer visit next year.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

