

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Making Her “CASE” on Capitol Hill

May 1, 2015

Graduate student Victoria Nneji has been trained in the universal nature of
the scientific method; but, during a recent visit to Washington, D.C., the
first-year Masters of Engineering Management candidate learned another
universal truth: all politics is local.

_Republished from theDuke Federal Relations blog_

Nneji gained insight into this widely-held adage firsthand when she visited
the nation’s capital earlier this month as one of two Duke students
participating in the CASE Workship—Catalyzing Advocacy in Science and
Engineering. The program, hosted by the American Association for the
Advancement of Science (AAAS), aims to teach graduate students in STEM fields
about the science and engineering policymaking that takes place across the
federal government.

After meetings with White House officials, mock appropriations negotiations,
and some lasting advice from seasoned lobbyists, the students were given the
ultimate exam: meeting with Members of Congress to make the case for
investments in research.

How did it go? To learn more about the trip—and about Victoria herself—Duke in
Washington went straight to the source:

**Name:** Victoria Chibuogu Nneji  
 **Program:** First-year candidate, Master of Engineering Management  
 **Undergraduate Degree:** Columbia University—School of Engineering; B.S. in
Applied Mathematics, minor in Entrepreneurship & Innovation  
 **Hometown:** Durham, NC

**DIW:** Tell us about your research—what are you focusing on?  
 **VN:** My research explores how to better design technology to meet how
different people understand information so we achieve our full potential in
performance when working with digital machines and other people. This summer,
I’ll be at Stanford University working on the design, implementation, and
evaluation of robots that encourage social, emotional, and cognitive growth in
children, including those with developmental deficits. When I return to Duke
in the fall, I will be conducting computational research on human-robot
interaction in Dr. Missy Cummings’ Humans & Autonomy Lab.

**DIW:** Why did you choose Duke?:  
 **VN:** I am blessed to be back home after growing so much in my four years
away in New York City. People at Duke are passionate, innovative, and…nice! We
have a strong alumni base that contributes to the resources available for
students like me to pursue great ideas and there is also a beautiful campus
spirit where we all feel part of the winning team.

**DIW:** What were the biggest differences between Washington and academia
that you discovered? Any similarities?  
 **VN:** As many speakers on the Hill reiterated, “all politics is local.” I
would say that this may be a key differentiating factor with academic
research– the goal of consistently using the scientific method is to prove
that a phenomenon we discover in one lab can be repeated in another lab,
anywhere in the world.

However, as I have been learning in my Engineering Management curriculum,
there is no exact science with one human globally, each human has a unique set
of needs and desires. So, we can learn something from the long tradition of
both spheres about order and adaptability.

**DIW:** Did you learn anything new or surprising during your meetings with
Congressional and executiveagency staff members?  
 **VN:** Our team from UNC and Duke had the opportunity to meet the Senior
Legislative Assistant to Congressman David Price. Having lived in Price’s
district for many years before college, I was pleasantly surprised that he is
a major advocate not just for the meaningful K-12 STEM education legislation
that impacted me early on, but also very much invested in moving our nation
forward with university research funding. Before becoming a Representative, he
was an academic and taught here at Duke!

An unfortunate surprise was that there are unrelated things and at times,
unreasonable causes, that are holding back the budget for scientific research
in our nation from growing to meet our future requirements.

**DIW:** What do you hope Congressional aides learned from their meetings with
you?  
 **VN:** I hope that our Representatives were reinvigorated for the good cause
we represent as academics, researchers, scientists. I first learned about
computational science when I was 11-years-old because of a National Science
Foundation-funded program, and that experience made me want to pursue a career
of creative thinking and thoughtful creation—something our nation critically
needs today and tomorrow. I applaud the hard work of our government leaders,
but I also encourage them to continue supporting the needs of our classrooms
and laboratories, so that stories like mine can proliferate.

**DIW:** Will your trip impact your own research or career path?  
 **VN:** This trip inspired me to consider myself a true advocate for wise
engineering policy. I am just starting out in my career, and I want to
contribute to research of advanced technologies that can change what society
considers to be possible in different realms of our lives, from education to
transportation. My voice and actions in my time as a Duke student matter for
the decisions that will be made on how to manage this [technological] growth
for our nation’s future and global opportunity.

**DIW:** Given your experience, do you have any advice for your fellow
graduate students who are considering engaging in policy?  
 **VN:** You can start right at home. Anywhere you live or work in the United
States, there are local and federal representatives who are there to serve
you, the public. So, consider what matters to you and your community, use your
graduate research skills to discover what your officials are up to in that
area, and take up courage to speak with those that represent you in
policymaking. We should push past barriers and fears that hold us back from
sharing our talents and fully contributing to the betterment of society
through our vocation.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

