

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Melina Smith: Understanding Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation

October 8, 2014 | By Melina Smith

##### NAE Grand Challenge Scholar Profile

  * **Major:** Biomedical Engineering
  * **Grand Challenge:** Reverse-Engineer the Brain
  * **GC Advisor:** Dr. Marc Sommer
  * **Project Title:** The Effects of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation on
    Single Neurons

As a Grand Challenges Scholar, I am uniting my penchant for physics and
engineering with my passion for neuroscience and psychology toward the goal of
Reverse-Engineering the Brain. I work in the laboratory of Marc Sommer,
professor of biomedical engineering, studying the effect of transcranial
magnetic stimulation (TMS) on single neurons in non-human primates. TMS is a
safe, noninvasive way of stimulating the brain that has proven effective in
treating depression and shows promise for both clinical therapy and cognitive
research. Though TMS has a well-documented impact on behavior, its precise
effect on the brain is not well understood.

> "The academic rigor of an engineering program does not typically reward
> those who devote time to interdisciplinary and extracurricular engagement,
> so the Grand Challenge Scholars Program serves as a beacon for students who
> dare to pursue a more holistic education. It has been invigorating to have a
> program that offers such structure and encouragement, and I admire the
> founders of the program for acknowledging the need for a versatile and
> empathetic engineer."

Our project seeks to illuminate this functional gap in understanding, which
should allow us to optimize TMS protocol as a therapeutic technique and as a
tool of discovery. My engagement in research has strengthened my ability to
apply engineering concepts in practice and has further expanded my academic
curiosity. I am pursuing coursework in neuroscience, psychology and
philosophy, all of which fall outside of the mandatory engineering curriculum.
This has introduced me to new modes of thinking and allowed me to examine the
challenges that face our world. It has been instrumental for me to step
outside of the engineering curriculum and perform the needs finding that
motivates the field of engineering.

I am a founding executive board member of Girls Engineering Change (GEC), a
non-profit that seeks to close the gender gap in STEM fields and spread
awareness of the Grand Challenges by showing young girls that a STEM career
will give them the tools to change the world. I also traveled to Tanzania with
DukeEngage and Engineering World Health, spending nine weeks learning Swahili,
immersing myself in Tanzanian culture and repairing medical equipment in
developing world hospitals. I realized that a deep commitment to serving our
interconnected world is an integral part of being an engineer and that the
components of my Grand Challenges Scholar portfolio have been an indispensable
part of my development as an engineer and a human being.

The academic rigor of an engineering program does not typically reward those
who devote time to interdisciplinary and extracurricular engagement, so the
Grand Challenge Scholars Program serves as a beacon for students who dare to
pursue a more holistic education. It has been invigorating to have a program
that offers such structure and encouragement, and I admire the founders of the
program for acknowledging the need for a versatile and empathetic engineer.
Through this uniquely fulfilling and groundbreaking program, I have stimulated
my own mind and hope to also stimulate the minds of others both literally—by
enhancing TMS research—and figuratively—by sharing the wonders of engineering
with the world.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

