

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# MEMS Graduates Named in Forbes ‘30 Under 30’ Feature

November 16, 2017

Three engineering alumni were recently named in the annual '30 Under 30' list
from Forbes Magazine

Every year, Forbes Magazine recognizes innovators under 30 from 20 different
industries, ranging from tech and entertainment to education and healthcare.
Among the new class of industry ‘stars’ were 13 Duke University alumni,
including MEMS graduates Scott Martin, Karim Khalil, and Ivonna Dumanyan.
These graduates were recognized for their unique contributions to the fields
of artificial intelligence, healthcare and energy in the 2018 Forbes 30 Under
30 class.

Scott Martin was recognized on the 30 under 30 Energy list for his work on the
NET Power project, a joint venture between Toshiba and 8 Rivers Capital that
will build the world’s first emissions free-power plant. Operating out of
Houston, Texas, the power plant was designed to capture all of its own carbon
emissions at no additional cost. Martin graduated from Duke with a bachelor of
science of engineering degree in mechanical engineering in 2014.

Karim Khalil was also named on the Energy list in recognition for his work on
a novel water reclamation technology that he developed through his start-up,
Infinite Cooling. Khalil devised a way to recapture water vapor from power
plants that normally escapes through evaporation, allowing engineers to
recycle the water vapor into the cooling system of the plants. He graduated
from Duke with a bachelor of science of engineering degree in mechanical
engineering in 2012.

Pratt graduate Ivonna Dumanyan was recognized on the 30 under 30 healthcare
list for her work on Fathom AI, a healthcare start-up she founded with fellow
Duke student and 30 under 30 honoree Gabrielle Levac. After tearing two
muscles during her time as a student athlete, Dumanyan recognized that
athletes would benefit from a wearable technology that could help monitor
their form and create training regimens to avoid injuries. The duo founded
Fathom AI while they were still students at Duke, and since graduation they
have worked to grow the company. Dumanyan graduated from Duke with a bachelor
of science degree in mechanical engineering in 2016 and a master’s degree in
mechanical engineering in 2017.

The success of MEMS graduates comes as no surprise to department chair Ken
Gall. “Mechanical engineering is an exciting, continually evolving discipline
that enables students to address a wide range of societal needs,” says Gall.
“We are very proud of Scott, Karim, and Ivonna for their entrepreneurial
accomplishments spanning energy, environment, biomechanics, and artificial
intelligence.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

