

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Liberating Data to Discover New Polymer Nanocomposites and Metamaterials

February 13, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

New $5 million project aims to build an organized, searchable framework
complete with analytical and predictive tools for materials discovery

A nationwide collaboration led by researchers from Duke University has secured
funding to produce an organized, searchable, extensible repository of data on
polymer nanocomposites and structural metamaterials complete with a suite of
analytical and predictive tools to help spur the discovery of new materials.

Polymer nanocomposites are composed of nanoparticles with at least one
dimension smaller than 100 nanometers—such as carbon nanotubes—dispersed in a
polymer matrix. Examples of such materials can be found in a myriad of
applications ranging from medicine to energy to structural components in
automobiles or sports equipment.

Metamaterials are synthetic materials engineered to have counter-intuitive
properties through unique structural geometry rather than chemical properties.
For example, with the right combination of structural features, a material
could have an inverted Poisson’s ratio, meaning rather than getting thinner as
it is stretched, it gets thicker instead.

The project is funded through a five-year, $5 million grant from the National
Science Foundation’s Cyber-infrastructure for Sustained Scientific Innovation
program, and links researchers from Duke, the California Institute of
Technology, Northwestern University, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and the
University of Vermont.

“If you do a literature search using a handful of keywords for a material
property, you don’t get the data—you get a list of thousands of papers that,
if you’re lucky, you’ll have access to. But you have to manually download and
read each paper to see if it contains the information you’re seeking,” said
Cate Brinson, the Sharon C and Harold L Yoh III Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science at Duke. “Researchers publish papers rich
with information, but the information is held in PDF files that are not
readily searchable to extract, visualize and compare data, except by old,
time-consuming methods. In the age of digital data, we scientists should
really be outraged by these limitations.”

Brinson is, and she’s doing something about it. Her goal is to build a
platform to house and use data in a strategic manner.

Instead of producing a list of papers, the same keyword search in the designed
framework—NanoMine for nanocomposites and MetaMine for metamaterials—will
produce a plot of relevant data compared across different papers. The data can
be further refined and exported, helping to benchmark a researcher’s own data
with other published literature. This access to actual data from multiple
sources simultaneously will allow researchers to find regimes and conditions
where materials exhibit desired properties.

In addition to the rigorous organization of and access to data, the platform
will also host a suite of analytical tools and simulation capabilities.
Application of machine learning algorithms on the array of data will enable
researchers to deepen fundamental mechanistic understanding and push toward
material design. The ultimate goal is to be able to request a material with a
specific set of properties and have the suite of tools provide design
scenarios for material composition, structure and processing to realize it.

“True material design ‘ _in silico_ ’ is a really hard problem, but we believe
we’ll be able to get there through building this infrastructure,” said
Brinson. “Once you couple the right tools with the datasets, you open the door
to a completely different method for discovery and material design.”

As Brinson says, it’s a hard problem—but it’s one she already has experience
solving. For the past five years, Brinson and her colleagues have been
building the framework for the NanoMine platform for polymer nanocomposites.
The new project will build out that infrastructure and demonstrate the
extensibility of their approach to other classes of materials through the
creation of MetaMine.

Joining Brinson in her effort is Duke colleague Cynthia Rudin, associate
professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, who
will create machine learning algorithms to determine which input parameters
are influencing the material properties of interest. Collaborating on machine
learning is Wei Chen, the Wilson-Cook Professor in Engineering Design at
Northwestern University, who also specializes in computationally describing
material structures and properties.

Deborah McGuinness, the Tetherless World Senior Constellation Professor at
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, will build the ontological classification
systems and the infrastructure behind them, allowing different types of
queries and tools to be built more readily into the platform. Linda Schadler,
now dean of the College of Engineering and Mathematical Sciences at the
University of Vermont, will conduct targeted experiments to fill gaps in the
literature to help the machine learning algorithms operate more efficiently.

And for the expertise on mechanical metamaterials themselves, Brinson will
turn to Chiara Daraio, professor of mechanical engineering and applied science
at the California Institute of Technology.

“All of the data researchers in these areas have created isn’t sitting where
people can easily access, so they end up reinventing the wheel over and over
again,” said Brinson. “Tackling the data accessibility and material design
problem is a big challenge, but I’m confident we’ll rapidly make large strides
toward solving it.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

