

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Microbot Origami Can Capture, Transport Single Cells

August 7, 2017

Microscopic cubes assembled and pre-programmed by magnetic fields capture and
transport single cells

_By Mick Kulikowski ofNorth Carolina State University News Services_

Researchers at North Carolina State University and Duke University have
developed a way to assemble and pre-program tiny structures made from
microscopic cubes – "microbot origami" – to change their shape when actuated
by a magnetic field and then, using the magnetic energy from their
environment, perform a variety of tasks – including capturing and transporting
single cells.

The findings, published today in Science Advances, pave the way for microbots
and microorigami assemblies that can serve as cell characterization tools,
fluid micromixers, and components of artificial muscles and soft biomimetic
devices.

"This research is about a topic of current interest – active particles which
take energy from their environment and convert it into directional movement,"
said Orlin Velev, INVISTA Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
at NC State and co-corresponding author of the paper.

To create the microbot origami, the researchers started with microscopic
polymer cubes that are metallic on one side, essentially making that one side
a magnet. Depending on their positioning, the cubes can be assembled in many
different ways.

"Since they are magnetized and interacting, the cubes store energy," Velev
said. "Tiny particles in the shape of cubes can attach together in sequences
where they face in different directions to make, for example, clusters that
behave like a tiny Pac-Man: You can open them by applying a magnetic field and
then let them close by turning the magnetic field off. They close because they
are releasing the stored magnetic energy. Thus, you inject internal energy
every time you open the microclusters and release it when they close."

The researchers then gave the tiny "Pac-Man" a specific task: capturing a live
cell, in this case a yeast cell. The microbot formed into a boxy shape and,
through its opening and closing motions, "swam" to surround the yeast cell.
The researchers then turned off the magnetic field that controlled the folding
of the microbot to capture the yeast cell, moved it and finally released it.

"We've shown here a prototype of self-folding microbot," Velev said, "that can
be used as a microtool to probe the response of specific types of cells, like
cancer cells, for instance."

"Previously reported micro-robotic structures have been limited to performing
simple tasks such as pushing and penetrating moieties due to their rigid body.
The ability to remotely control the dynamic reconfiguration of our microbot
creates a new 'toolbox' for manipulating microscale objects and interacting
with its microenvironment," said Koohee Han, a Ph.D. candidate at NC State and
first author of the paper.

"As the microbot folds, it can compress liquids or solids and you can use it
as a tool to measure bulk mechanical properties, like stiffness," said Wyatt
Shields, a postdoctoral researcher at Duke University and NC State University,
who holds a PhD from Duke's Department of Biomedical Engineering and co-
authored the paper. "In some ways, it is a new metrological tool for gauging
elasticity at the microscopic level."

The authors say that the design of microbot origami mimics nature. "The cube
sequence programs the shapes of the folding microbots. Proteins work in the
same way," Shields said. "The sequence of amino acids in a protein will
determine how it folds, just as the sequence of cubes in our microbot will
determine how it folds."

Velev says that future work will concentrate on making the particles able to
move on their own, rather than steering them by magnetic field gradients. Han
is working on making bots that self-propel in complex fluids with non-
Newtonian behavior. Shields is studying how the dynamics of the microbot
reshaping could be used to study the microstructure of surrounding
macromolecules.

The paper is co-authored by Bhuvnesh Bharti, presently a faculty member at
Louisiana State University; Nidhi M. Diwakar, a REU student at Research
Triangle Materials Research Center; and the co-corresponding author Gabriel P.
López, presently at the University of New Mexico.

The research is funded by the National Science Foundation under grant
CBET-1604116, by the Research Triangle Materials Research Science and
Engineering Center on Programmable Soft Matter under grant DMR-1121107, and by
an NSF graduate fellowship (GRF-1106401).

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

