

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Microchip-Like Technology Allows Single-Cell Analysis

May 14, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Using components similar to those that control electrons in microchips,
researchers have designed a new device that can sort, store and retrieve
individual cells for study.

A U.S. and Korean research team has developed a chip-like device that could be
scaled up to sort and store hundreds of thousands of individual living cells
in a matter of minutes. The system is similar to a random access memory chip,
but it moves cells rather than electrons.

Researchers at Duke University and Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of Science and
Technology (DGIST) in the Republic of Korea hope the cell-sorting system will
revolutionize research by allowing the fast, efficient control and separation
of individual cells that could then be studied in vast numbers.

“Most experiments grind up a bunch of cells and analyze genetic activity by
averaging the population of an entire tissue rather than looking at the
differences between single cells within that population,” said Benjamin
Yellen, an associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials science
at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering. “That’s like taking the eye color of
everyone in a room and finding that the average color is grey, when not a
single person in the room has grey eyes. You need to be able to study
individual cells to understand and appreciate small but significant
differences in a similar population.”

The study appears online May 14 in Nature Communications.

Yellen and his collaborator, Cheol Gi Kim of DGIST, printed thin
electromagnetic components like those found on microchips onto a slide. These
patterns create magnetic tracks and elements like switches, transistors and
diodes that guide magnetic beads and single cells tagged with magnetic
nanoparticles through a thin liquid film.

Like a series of small conveyer belts, localized rotating magnetic fields move
the beads and cells along specific directions etched into a track, while
built-in switches direct traffic to storage sites on the chip. The result is
an integrated circuit that controls small magnetic objects much like the way
electrons are controlled on computer chips.

In the study, the engineers demonstrate a 3-by-3 grid of compartments that
allow magnetic beads to enter but not leave. By tagging cells with magnetic
particles and directing them to different compartments, the cells can be
separated, sorted, stored, studied and retrieved.

In a random access memory chip, similar logic circuits manipulate electrons on
a nanometer scale, controlling billions of compartments in a square inch. But
cells are much larger than electrons, which would limit the new devices to
hundreds of thousands of storage spaces per square inch.

But Yellen and Kim say that’s still plenty small for their purposes.

“You need to analyze thousands of cells to get the statistics necessary to
understand which genes are being turned on and off in response to
pharmaceuticals or other stimuli,” said Yellen. “And if you’re looking for
cells exhibiting rare behavior, which might be one cell out of a thousand,
then you need arrays that can control hundreds of thousands of cells.”

As an example, Yellen points to cells afflicted by HIV or cancer. In both
diseases, most afflicted cells are active and can be targeted by therapeutics.
A few rare cells, however, remain dormant, biding their time and avoiding
destruction before activating and bringing the disease out of remission. With
the new technology, the researchers hope to watch millions of individual
cells, pick out the few that become dormant, quickly retrieve them and analyze
their genetic activity.

“Maybe then we could find a way to target the dormant cells,” said Yellen.

Kim added, “Our technology can offer new tools to improve our basic
understanding of cancer metastasis at the single cell level, how cancer cells
respond to chemical and physical stimuli, and to test new concepts for gene
delivery and metabolite transfer during cell division and growth.”

The researchers now plan to demonstrate a larger grid of 8-by-8 or 16-by-16
compartments with cells, and then to scale it up to hundreds of thousands of
compartments. If successful, their technology would lend itself well to
manufacturing, giving scientists around the world access to single-cell
experimentation.

“Our idea is a simple one,” said Kim. “Because it is a system similar to
electronics and is based on the same technology, it would be easy to
fabricate. That makes the system relevant to commercialization.”

“There’s another technique paper we need to do as a follow-up before we get to
actual biological applications,” added Yellen. “But they’re on their way.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (CMMI-0800173),
and the Research Triangle Materials Research Science and Engineering Center
(DMR-1121107) and the National Research Foundation of Korea funded by the
Ministry of Science, ICT & Future Planning (NRF-2013R1A1A2065222).

###

“Magnetophoretic circuits for digital control of single particles and cells,”
Byeonghwa Lim, Venu Reddy, XingHao Hu, KunWoo Kim, Mital Jadhav, Roozbeh
Abedini-Nassab, Young-Woock Noh, Yong Taik Lim, Benjamin B. Yellen, CheolGi
Kim. Nature Communications, 2014. DOI: 10.1038/ncomms4846

A PDF of the article is available for download for free courtesy of
DukeSpace..

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

