

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Capturing All of Light’s Data in One Snapshot

March 10, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineers to lead $7.5 million Department of Defense project to create a
“super camera” that can capture and process a wide range of light’s properties

Engineers at Duke University are leading a nationwide effort to develop a
camera that takes pictures worth not just a thousand words, but an entire
encyclopedia.

Funded by a five-year, $7.5 million grant through the Department of Defense’s
Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI) competition, the team
will develop a “super camera” that captures just about every type of
information that light can carry, such as polarization, depth, phase,
coherence and incidence angle. The new camera will also use edge computing and
hardware acceleration technologies to process the vast amount of information
it captures within the device in real-time.

Joining Duke on the new project are researchers from the California Institute
of Technology, City University of New York, Harvard University, Stanford
University and the University of Pennsylvania.

> “It is hard to predict exactly where the biggest impact will be—but that is
> also one of the exciting aspects about fundamental research."
>
> \- maiken mikkelsen

“Detection of many of these properties of light have been demonstrated in the
past to a limited degree, but multiple properties are rarely, if ever,
captured simultaneously,” said Maiken Mikkelsen, the James N. and Elizabeth H.
Barton Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke.
“This idea—even the ability to pursue it—is really quite new and has the
potential to revolutionize the sensing field.”

Current cameras for advanced optical sensing typically can only focus on one
property of light at a time and rely on bulky and costly scanning systems,
which severely limits their usage. And even if they were capable of capturing
more information, the computational processing power required to make sense of
it all on-site would make them even bulkier.

The new MURI team will exploit breakthroughs in the fields of metasurfaces,
computational design, fundamental modal optics and information theory to
create an imaging system that can handle both sensing and processing, while
simultaneously streamlining its size and weight.

The imaging side of the technology will be based on metasurfaces—flat devices
that harness electromagnetic phenomena that occur due to the material’s
structure rather than its chemistry. For example, Mikkelsen specializes in a
field called photonics and makes nanostructures that boost electromagnetic
activity by trapping light on tiny silver nanocubes that are placed near a
thin layer of metal.

In 2019, Mikkelsen demonstrated a plasmonic metasurface’s ability to capture
six frequencies of light, ranging from infrared to ultraviolet, in a few
trillionths of a second on a single inexpensive chip. The goal of that work
was to create a small, inexpensive hyperspectral camera for applications such
as cancer surgery, food safety inspection and precision agriculture.

That work used multiple grid-like cells, each tailored to capture a specific
frequency of light. While the new work might also use a cell-based approach,
Mikkelsen says it could also use stacked layers, where each layer provides a
specific function. But regardless of its configuration, the new imaging device
will need to extend far beyond simply detecting different frequencies.

“We will need to make some critical breakthroughs to be able to gather more of
the information that is difficult to capture, such as coherence or depth,”
said Mikkelsen “But that’s why we’ve put together such a fantastic team.”

Working to develop new approaches to metasurface-enabled sensing are Mark
Brongersma, professor of materials science and engineering at Stanford, and
Federico Capasso, the Robert L. Wallace Professor of Applied Physics and
Vinton Hayes Senior Research Fellow in Electrical Engineering at Harvard. And
focusing on new nanophotonic detection concepts along with Mikkelsen will be
Harry Atwater, the Howard Hughes Professor of Applied Physics and Materials
Science at CalTech.

As the team develops a thin, lightweight metasurface capable of capturing all
of this information, they also need to develop new methods for quickly
processing it on the same small device. For this, the researchers plan on
turning to edge computing—the concept of performing processing locally rather
than sending data to the cloud and back—and hardware acceleration, the idea of
baking some of the processing directly into the hardware architecture. For
example, a specific metasurface could extract the outline of an object to aid
in object identification.

Developing the theoretical framework and modeling to enable their edge
computing ideas are Stanford’s Shanhui Fan, professor of electrical
engineering and applied physics and director of the Edward L. Ginzton
Laboratory, and David Miller, the W. M. Keck Professor of Electrical
Engineering. Working on the front-end optical processing and computing
challenge are Nader Engheta, the H. Nedwill Ramsey Professor of Electrical and
Systems Engineering at Penn, and Andrea Alù, director of the Photonics
Initiative at the CUNY Advanced Science Research Center, Einstein Professor of
Physics at the CUNY Graduate Center and professor of electrical engineering at
The City College of New York.

Two international collaborators also provide valuable expertise and
capabilities for computing metasurfaces and nanoscale optical characterization
(Albert Polman, AMOLF, The Netherlands) and optical image processing, photonic
neuromorphics, non-line-of-sight- and quantum- imaging (Daniele Faccio,
University of Glasgow, UK).

Put together, the project represents a new research frontier at the
intersection of nanoscience, photonics and information science that will lay
the foundation for advanced imaging in an on-chip platform critical for a
range of DoD missions demanding ultra-small size, weight and power.

“I am really excited to be able to work with this amazing dream team of world-
leading scientists,” said Mikkelsen. “This support over a five-year period
allows us to tackle bigger challenges and completely re-think how sensing and
imaging could be done. It holds the potential for transformative breakthroughs
for a wide variety of technologies, from defense, environmental and medical
applications to consumer products.

“It is hard to predict exactly where the biggest impact will be—but that is
also one of the exciting aspects about fundamental research,” she said.

## Related News

November 25, 2019

### Light-Trapping Nanocubes Drive Inexpensive Multispectral Camera

October 15, 2019

### Mikkelsen Wins Moore Inventor Fellowship to Pursue Hyperspectral Cameras

March 05, 2015

### Mikkelsen NSF CAREER Award to Support Quantum Photonics Research

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

