

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mikkelsen Named 2016 Cottrell Scholar

February 24, 2016

Maiken H. Mikkelsen, the Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering and assistant professor of physics at Duke University,
has been named a 2016 Cottrell Scholar in physics. The Cottrell Scholar
program develops outstanding teacher-scholars who are recognized by their
scientific communities for the quality and innovation of their research
programs and their academic leadership skills.

The award comes with a research and education stipend of $100,000 and also
support to attend bi-annual networking meetings, providing an opportunity to
share insights and expertise and foster synergy among faculty nationwide.

The grant will support Mikkelsen in her efforts to design and chemically
construct new nanoscale materials with unusual, exciting optical properties.
She aims to work with composite material structures consisting of components
of only 10 nanometers—about the size of 20 silicon atoms.

Her work will focus on light-matter interactions in novel semiconductor
nanostructures manufactured in the Duke clean room. By exploring how
traditional semiconductors can be made to behave in new ways by embedding them
in precisely designed nanoscale structures, Mikkelsen will effectively create
new hybrid materials with tailored properties.

The approach involves trapping and squeezing light into nanometer-sized gaps
between a metal nanocube and a metal surface, a structure she calls a
“nanopatch antenna.” Semiconductors placed in this gap are energized by the
intensified light, causing them to emit light more than 1,000 times faster,
with higher efficiency and in the desired directions.

The intensified light produced in the nanopatch antenna is so energetic that
scientists describe it as a “quantum plasma oscillation,” which, in their
calculations, they treat more or less as they would other subatomic particles.
Thus, they call these plasma oscillations “quasiparticles.”

“This process,” Mikkelsen said, “enables novel optical properties to occur
which are vastly different from naturally occurring materials. Building upon
this allows for a new class of hybrid materials to be created with finely-
tuned optical properties.” Her work could one day lead to more efficient LED
bulbs, better TVs and more efficient solar-electric power.

For the educational component of the Cottrell Scholar Award, Mikkelsen aims to
create new and interactive teaching techniques in undergraduate courses while
enhancing diversity in physics. And through these initiatives, she hopes to
address the shrinking pipeline of students choosing careers in the sciences.

“I will create opportunities for undergraduate students to develop creative
and independent thinking through a new interactive undergraduate course on
‘Physics of Semiconductor Nanostructures,’ new modules for the introductory
‘Quantum Mechanics’ course, and independent research opportunities,” she said.

“Cottrell Scholars are provided with unique opportunities to launch and
establish truly outstanding careers,” said RCSA President Robert Shelton. “In
addition to receiving financial support for research, Scholars belong to a
community whose members help each other to develop the skills and
relationships necessary to become academic leaders.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

