

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mikkelsen Wins SPIE Early Career Achievement Award

January 26, 2017

Maiken Mikkelsen recognized for her seminal contributions to the understanding
of light-matter interactions and ultrafast emission dynamics in plasmonic
systems

Maiken H. Mikkelsen, the Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering and assistant professor of physics at Duke University,
has won the 2017 Early Career Achievement Award from SPIE, the international
society for optics and photonics. The society recognized Mikkelsen “for her
seminal contributions to the understanding of light-matter interactions and
ultrafast emission dynamics in plasmonic systems.”

The citation covers much of the research Mikkelsen has published since joining
the faculty at Duke in 2012, which focuses mainly on the fundamental
understanding and applied uses of plasmonics. Plasmonics refers to intensified
packets of energy called surface plasmons which can be created by trapping and
squeezing light into nanometer-sized gaps between a metal nanocube and a metal
surface.

Once created, surface plasmons possess many interesting and useful physical
phenomena. They can excite nearby photoemitters, causing them to fluoresce at
speeds thousands of times faster than normal. Such systems may hold the key to
future optical computing and communications devices. They can also enable vast
performance improvements of existing devices including light sources, sensors
and detectors in the near-infrared, as well as bring devices with new
functionalities, such as quantum networks, closer to reality.

Tailored plasmonic surfaces can resonate with specific frequencies of light,
creating new technologies for thermal imaging and multispectral imaging and
printing on single substrates. The novel optical properties created by
sandwiched plasmonic structures also can be vastly different from naturally
occurring materials and could lead to more efficient LED bulbs, better TVs and
more efficient solar-electric power.

The award comes on the tail of Mikkelsen receiving the Young Investigator
Program award from the Army Research Office (ARO) and a $2 million Emerging
Frontiers in Research and Innovation (EFRI) award from the National Science
Foundation (NSF). She has also recently received the CAREER award from the
National Science Foundation, the Air Force Office of Scientific Research Young
Investigator award, the Cottrell Scholar Award from the Research Corporation
for Science Advancement and the Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Award.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

