

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mikkelsen Encourages Women in STEM Through SPIE Women in Optics Planner

December 11, 2015

Maiken Mikkelsen is the Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering and assistant professor of physics at Duke

Maiken Mikkelsen was featured in this year’s SPIE Women in Optics planner.
Each year since 2005, SPIE—the international society for optical
engineering—has produced the planner highlighting women in the fields of
science and engineering to support and promote the work of female scientists.
Since its inception, the planner has also become a tool for introducing girls
and young women to the possibilities of careers in all sciences, technology,
engineering, and mathematics.

This planner includes photos and interesting facts about women who are making
a difference through their work and other contributions to the fields of
science, optics and engineering. Five thousand copies of the planner are
printed and distributed, free of charge, in more than 25 countries worldwide.

Mikkelsen’s entry contains the following advice:

“I have been fascinated by understanding the natural world for as long as I
can remember. Physics was always my favorite subject in school. I was amazed
by the beauty and often simple laws governing everything around us, so
studying physics in college followed naturally. During my last year in
college, I was an exchange student at University of California, Santa Barbara,
and did research as part of an independent study class. I loved designing and
doing hands-on experiments; I found it to be a very creative process. The
experience convinced me that I had to go to graduate school.

I lead a research group exploring the behavior of novel nanoscale structures
and materials by studying their interaction with laser light, which may lay
the foundation for future quantum- or nano-based technologies. I spend my time
managing my group which consists of graduate and undergraduate students, as
well as postdoctoral associates, discussing research progress and
troubleshooting, thinking about new experiments and writing proposals to fund
the research, and then of course I teach physics and engineering classes to
undergraduate and graduate students.

Follow your heart and do what you love!”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

