

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Modeling Traffic with Self-Driving Cars

March 2, 2017

Senior Efe Aras creates city street models to predict how self-driving cars
might affect traffic by parking themselves

Imagine having your car drop you at the office and then go park itself several
miles away. Not only would it make your morning that much more bearable, it’d
open up parking spots on otherwise congested city streets.

As the concept of driverless cars speeds from science fiction to reality,
researchers are making many promises about potential improvements in safety,
traffic and convenience. But is there evidence to support those claims?

Efe Aras, a Duke Engineering senior, is using ideas from statistics and
mathematics to determine just how big of a traffic boon self-parking cars
could be. A Pratt Undergraduate Research Fellow, Aras has teamed up with Galen
Reeves, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and
statistical science known for his work in information theory, statistical
signal processing and machine learning.

Aras and Reeves developed a model incorporating variables such as the density
of cars on the road, how long cars stay in roadside parking spots and how
picky both drivers and driverless cars might be about those spots, among
others. The model represents a small, generic grid of roads, though it Aras
could scaled it up to represent an actual city’s streets.

The duo ran simulations to determine how traffic patterns change depending on
the percentage of driverless cars on the road. And to be fair, they accounted
for the fact that driverless cars could actually increase traffic congestion.

That was not, however, the case—they found that as the number of future
autonomous cars goes up, the level of potential road rage goes down.

“You also get more traffic relief depending on what city you’re modeling,”
said Aras. “As the population and congestion goes up, the effects of
driverless cars become more apparent.”

“It is exciting to see how old ideas from physics and math can be used to
address difficult questions about how new technologies, such as self-driving
cars, will impact society,” added Reeves.

Self-parking cars isn’t the only data analytics experience Aras is getting at
Duke. As part of his experience in the National Academy of Engineering Grand
Challenge Scholars Program, he is also working on making big data experiments
more protective of individual privacy.

“What makes Duke so special is all of the different connections in different
departments,” said Aras. “Engineers look at problems differently than
mathematicians, so it’s sometimes harder for us to deal with complex models.
We may think we have a robust model and solution, but to understand a model
completely, you have to understand the mathematical beauty of it.”

For example, explains Aras, say you’re part of a medical study that you’d
rather keep private but you also happen to be the only person on campus with a
blue backpack. If a big data researcher is analyzing records and puts in a
query about blue backpacks, then they would know that you were in the study.

“But there are ways to privatize data even in a big dataset,” said Aras, who
is working with Ashwin Machanavajjhala, professor of computer science, on the
project. “You can create just enough background noise to stop things like that
from happening without statistically changing the results of a study in any
meaningful way.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

