

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Modified Biomaterials Perform Orderly Self-Assembly in Response to
Temperature Cues

March 19, 2018

Using post-translational modification, researchers were able to create unique
biomaterials with programmable behavior

Biomedical Engineers from Duke University have demonstrated a new approach to
making self-assembled biomaterials that relies on protein modifications and
temperature. The hybrid approach allows researchers to control self-assembly
more precisely, which may prove useful for a variety of biomedical
applications from drug delivery to wound healing.

The research appears online on March 19 in Nature Chemistry _._

Biomaterials have broad applications across the fields of tissue engineering,
regenerative medicine and drug delivery. Protein- and peptide-based materials
are attractive for these applications because they are non-toxic,
biodegradable and have a well-defined composition. But these biomaterials are
limited to the 20 amino acids found in nature.

One strategy to expand the chemical diversity of protein-based materials is
post-translational modification (PTM), a powerful set of reactions that nature
uses to chemically transform proteins after they are synthesized from genes.
PTM can modify specific amino acids in proteins or add non-protein structures,
such as sugars and fatty acids.

“It is obvious that Nature combines different chemical alphabets to make very
sophisticated materials,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti, the chair of the BME
department at Duke and primary author of the paper. “One way it does this is
by combining the amino acid vocabulary of proteins with other very different
alphabets —sugars and fats are just two examples of the many hundreds of such
PTMs. As materials scientists, we have not taken advantage of nature’s methods
to make hybrid materials, and this provided the inspiration for this
research.”

To make such a hybrid material with useful biomedical properties, researchers
in the Chilkoti lab focused on creating a series of lipid-modified
polypeptides, also called fatty-acid-modified elastin-like polypeptides, or
FAMEs.

When a lipid, like a myristoyl group, is fused to a peptide sequence, the
different physical properties of the lipid and peptide result in the formation
peptide amphiphiles, or PAs. Typical PAs can self-assemble into diverse
structures like long fibers, making them useful as scaffolds for tissue
engineering. However, this happens spontaneously and these materials cannot be
injected into the body but instead have to be implanted.

The research team added another useful biomaterial, elastin-like polypeptide
(ELP), because it can change from a soluble state to an insoluble state, or
vice-versa, depending on temperature. Combining the properties of these two
classes of useful biomaterials resulted in the FAME polypeptide.

Using three components –– a lipid myristoyl group‚ a beta-sheet-forming
peptide sequence, and an elastin-like polypeptide (ELP) -- the researchers
created a hybrid biomaterial that changes from molecules floating in solution
into a solid material, simply by raising the temperature.

“Attachment of lipids to short sequence of peptides, typically 5-20 amino
acids, have been investigated for many years, but combining large biopolymers
with lipids had not been explored,” said Davoud Mozhdehi, a postdoctoral
fellow in the Chilkoti lab. “What distinguishes FAMEs from PAs is the presence
of this temperature-sensitive biopolymer with much longer length, typically
200-600 amino acids, in the form of the ELP.”

“That short beta sheet-forming peptide sequence only makes up about two
percent of the entire sequence,” Mozhdehi said. “But it has a huge impact on
the self-assembly behavior. This hybrid material retains thermal
responsiveness of the ELP and the hierarchical self-assembly of the PA,
creating a unique material with programmable behavior.”

“By combining a PA with an ELP, we get a molecule that can go from liquid to
solid within seconds with a small rise in temperature”, said Chilkoti. “This
opens up new applications in medicine, where a these materials can be injected
as a liquid that would then turn into solid inside the body.”

This proof-of-concept builds upon previous research from the Chilkoti lab, in
which researchers explored new ways to use enzymes to synthesize hybrid lipid-
peptide polymer fusions between ELPs and lipids using E. coli bacteria _._

“Others had previously found that you can take a specific enzyme out of
complex eukaryotic cells and get it to function in E. coli,” said Kelli
Luginbuhl, a research scientist in the Chilkoti lab. “Normally, this enzyme
permanently attaches a lipid group to a protein, and we were curious whether
we could use the enzyme to make lipid-biopolymer hybrid materials. When Davoud
Mozhdehi heard about this project, he had an idea to incorporate a short
structure-directing peptide sequence into the mix.”

Researchers at the Max Planck Institute for Polymer Research aided the Duke
team by completing advanced material characterization. “Upon hearing about the
multiple structures formed by these biomanufactured polymers, we were quite
excited to participate in this collaborative project to further elucidate the
mechanism of temperature-triggered hydrogel and aggregate formation in these
materials,” the Max Planck team said in a statement. “Our contribution of
temperature-dependent, high-resolution atomic force microscopy and
temperature-dependent spectroscopy nicely complemented the work from the Duke
group, and together we were able to decipher the molecular transformations by
which these unique biopolymers form hierarchical materials.”

“This entire process has been a great collaboration for all involved,”
Luginbuhl said. “In the Chilkoti lab, Davoud and I were able to combine our
respective backgrounds in organic chemistry and protein engineering, and as
the number of contributors grew, so did the quality of the research.”

“These building blocks are known in the field and now we have shown that
combining them by forming covalent bonds, results in synergistic properties
and self-assembly,” Mozhdehi said. “We hope to expand this method to other
lipids and proteins and develop new tools and materials for the biomedical
applications.”

This research was funded by the National Science Foundation through the
Research Triangle Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC;
DMR1121107), National Institutes of Health (NIH, R01 GM-061232). Duke
University Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility and Analytical
Instrumentation Facility at North Carolina State University are members of the
North Carolina Research Triangle Nanotechnology Network, which is supported by
the NSF (ECCS-1542015) as part of the National Nanotechnology Coordinated
Infrastructure.

CITATION: “Genetically encoded lipid-polypeptide hybrid biomaterials that
exhibit temperature-triggered hierarchical self-assembly,” Davoud Mozhdehi,
Kelli Luginbuhl, Joseph R. Simon, Michael Dzuricky, Rudiger Berger, H. Samet
Varol, Fred C. Huang, Kristen L Buehne, Nicholas R. Mayne, Isaac Weitzhandler,
Mischa Bonn, Sapun H. Parekh, and Ashutosh Chilkoti. Nature Chemistry, online
March 19, 2018. DOI 10.1038/s41557-018-0005-z

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

