

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Molecular Tinkering Doubles Cancer Drug’s Efficacy

August 4, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Molecular packaging enhances a drug’s effects in mice

Researchers have packaged a widely used cancer drug into nanoparticles, more
than doubling its effectiveness at destroying tumors.

The drug paclitaxel has been used for decades to fight breast, ovarian, lung
and other cancers. But its effectiveness has been limited by its small
molecular size and insolubility in water—properties that allow the body to
clear the drug too quickly, reducing its accumulation in tumors.

Many molecular packaging systems have been developed to deliver the drug while
counteracting these effects, with a protein-bound version of the drug called
Abraxane currently the leading therapy.

But Ashutosh Chilkoti, professor and chair of the Department of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke University, thought his team could do better.

By surrounding molecules of paclitaxel with self-assembling spheres composed
of amino acids, the Duke team doubled tumor exposure to the drug compared to
Abraxane while simultaneously reducing its effects on healthy tissue. This
kept mice with tumors alive significantly longer and, in some cases,
completely eradicated the tumors.

The results were published online in Nature Communications on August 4, 2015.

The big difference between Abraxane and the Duke approach is the types of
molecular bonds that are formed. In Abraxane, the paclitaxel is physically
surrounded by albumin, a common blood protein. In the new packaging system,
multiple copies of the drug are chemically bonded to an amino acid
polypeptide, forming a water-soluble nanoparticle with the drug hidden in its
core.

These nanoparticles are highly soluble in blood and are the perfect size to
penetrate and accumulate in tumors where they take advantage of a tumor’s
acidic environment.

“The chemical bonds holding the polypeptide cage together are stable in blood,
but dissolve in a tumor’s lower pH levels,” said Jayanta Bhattacharyya, senior
researcher in Chilkoti’s lab and first author on the paper. “This delivers the
drug directly to the tumor and helps prevent it from randomly absorbing into
healthy tissue, reducing side effects.”

To test their system, Chilkoti, Bhattacharyya and their colleagues used two
groups of mice. The first group had human breast cancer growing in their own
mammary glands. While none of the mice treated with Abraxane survived past 85
days, most of the mice treated with the new packaging system survived past 100
days.

A second group of mice had human prostate tumors growing under their skin.
Similarly, while they did not survive past 60 days when treated with Abraxane,
every single mouse treated with the new packaging system survived past 70
days, with some experiencing a complete cure.

As the mortality rates suggest, the Duke technology showed a higher
concentration of paclitaxel in the tumors with more staying power than
Abraxane, while simultaneously showing much lower levels throughout the rest
of the mice’s bodies.

“Clearly in the animal model there is a night and day difference, and if that
translates to people it will be transformative for patients,” said Neil
Spector, an oncologist at Duke Medicine familiar with the work. “But it’s not
just the increase in clinical efficacy and outcomes that are exciting, it’s
also the improvement in targeting and reduction in toxicity, which is just
icing on the cake. And since this platform could potentially be used for such
a broad array of drugs, it could be a game-changer for cancer therapy.”

In future work, Chilkoti and coworkers will begin applying the packaging
system to other cancer drugs with the goal of developing a “one size fits all”
technology to improve the effectiveness of many other cancer drugs.

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01
EB000188, R01 EB007205).

###

“A Paclitaxel-Loaded Recombinant Polypeptide Nanoparticle Outperforms Abraxane
in Multiple Murine Cancer Models.” Jayanta Bhattacharyya, Joseph J. Bellucci,
Isaac Weitzhandler, Jonathan R. McDaniel, Ivan Spasojevic, Xinghai Li, Chao-
Chieh Lin, Jen-Tsan Ashley Chi and Ashutosh Chilkoti. Nature Communications,
2015. DOI: 10.1038/ncomms8939

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

