

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Molecular Paddlewheels Propel Sodium Ions Through Next-Generation Batteries

January 11, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Insights into the atomistic dynamics of emerging solid-state batteries will
help speed their evolution

Materials scientists at Duke University have revealed paddlewheel-like
molecular dynamics that help push sodium ions through a quickly evolving class
of solid-state batteries. The insights should guide researchers in their
pursuit of a new generation of sodium-ion batteries to replace lithium-ion
technology in a wide range of applications such as data centers and home
energy storage.

The results appeared online November 10 in the journal Energy & Environmental
Science.

In general, rechargeable batteries work by moving electrons through external
wires from one side to the other and back again. To balance this transfer of
energy, atoms with an electric charge called ions, such as lithium ions, move
within the battery through a chemical substance called an electrolyte. How
quickly and easily these ions can make their journey plays a key role in how
fast a battery can charge and how much energy it can provide in a given amount
of time.

“Most researchers still tend to focus on how the crystalline framework of a
solid electrolyte might allow ions to quickly pass through an all-solid
battery,” said Olivier Delaire, associate professor of mechanical engineering
and materials science at Duke. “In the last few years, the field has begun to
realize that the molecular dynamics of how the atoms can jump around are
important as well.”

Lithium ion batteries have long been the dominant technology used for most all
commercial applications requiring energy storage, from tiny smart watches to
gigantic data centers. While they have been extremely successful, lithium ion
batteries have several drawbacks that make new technologies more attractive
for certain applications.

For example, lithium ion batteries have a liquid electrolyte inside that,
while extremely efficient at allowing lithium ions to travel quickly through,
is also extremely flammable. As the market continues to grow exponentially,
there are worries about being able to mine enough lithium from the relatively
limited global deposits. And some of the rare earth elements used in their
construction — such as cobalt and manganese — are even rarer and are only
mined in a few locations around the world.

Many researchers believe that alternative technologies are necessary to
supplement the skyrocketing demand for energy storage, and one of the leading
candidates is sodium-ion batteries. While not as energetically dense or fast
as their lithium-ion batteries, the technology has many potential advantages.
Sodium is much cheaper and more abundant than lithium. The materials required
for their constituent parts are also much more commonly available. And by
replacing the liquid electrolyte with a solid-state electrolyte material
instead, researchers can build all-solid batteries that promise to be more
energy dense, more stable and less likely to ignite than currently available
rechargeable batteries.

These advantages lead researchers to consider sodium-ion batteries a
potentially viable replacement for lithium-ion batteries in applications that
are not as constrained by space and speed requirements as thin smart phones or
light electric vehicles. For example, large data centers or other buildings
that require large amounts of energy over a long period of time are good
candidates.

“This is generally a very active area of research where people are racing
toward the next generation of batteries,” said Delaire. “However, there is not
a sufficiently strong fundamental understanding of what materials work well at
room temperature or why. We’re providing insights into the atomistic dynamics
that allow one popular candidate to transport its sodium ions quickly and
efficiently.”

The material studied in these experiments is a sodium thiophosphate, Na3PS4.
Researchers already knew that the crystalline structure of the phosphorus and
sulfur atoms creates a one-dimensional tunnel for sodium ions to travel
through. But as Delaire explains, nobody had looked to see whether the
movement of neighboring atoms also plays an important role.

To find out, Delaire and his colleagues took samples of the material to Oak
Ridge National Laboratory. By bouncing neutrons off the atoms at extremely
fast rates, researchers captured a series of snapshots of the atoms’ precise
motions. The results showed that the pyramid-shaped phosphorus-sulfur PS4
units that frame the tunnels twist and turn in place and almost act as
paddlewheels that help the sodium ions move through.

“This process has been theorized before, but the arguments are usually made in
a cartoonish way,” said Delaire. “Here we show what the atoms are actually
doing and show that, while there’s a bit of truth to this cartoon, it’s also
much more complex.”

The researchers confirmed the neutron-scattering results by computationally
modeling the atomic dynamics at the National Energy Research Scientific
Computing Center. The team used a machine learning approach to capture the
potential energy surface in which the atoms vibrate and move. By not needing
to recalculate the quantum mechanical forces at every point in time, the
approach sped up the calculations by several orders of magnitude.

With the new insights into the atomistic dynamics of one sodium-ion
electrolyte and the new approach to quickly modeling their behavior, Delaire
hopes the results will help push the field forward more quickly, from Na3PS4
and beyond.

“Even though this is one of the leading materials because of its high ionic
conductivity, there’s already a slightly different version being pursued that
uses antimony instead of phosphorus,” Delaire said. “But despite the speed at
which the field is moving, the insights and tools we present in this paper
should help researchers make better decisions about where to go next.”

This research was supported by the Department of Energy (DE-SC0019978, DE-
AC02-05CH11231, DE-AC02-06CH11357) and the National Science Foundation EPSCOR
RII Track 4 award (No. 2033397).

CITATION: “Fast Na Diffusion and Anharmonic Phonon Dynamics in Superionic
Na3PS4.” Mayanak K. Gupta, Jingxuan Ding, Naresh C. Osti, Douglas L.
Abernathy, William Arnold, Hui Wang, Zachary Hood and Olivier Delaire. Energy
& Environmental Science, Nov. 10, 2021. DOI: 10.1039/D1EE01509E

## Related News

March 15, 2021

### Twisting, Flexible Crystals Key to Solar Energy Production

September 04, 2020

### ‘Floppy’ Atomic Dynamics Help Turn Heat into Electricity

October 08, 2018

### Copper Ions Flow Like Liquid through the Frozen Atomic Network of a
Crystal

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

