

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Musah Wins Keystone Symposia Early Career Investigator Travel Award

March 15, 2019

New faculty member Samira Musah was recognized for her research in stem cell
engineering and human kidney disease

Samira Musah, an assistant professor in Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering and the Department of Medicine’s Division of
Nephrology, received the Early Investigator Travel Award from the Keystone
Symposia on Molecular and Cellular Biology.

Intended to substantially further a current research project or assist in
problem-solving around a particular experimental topic, the award provides
support to early-career investigators at the assistant professor level, to
attend the Keystone Symposia meetings and present new research. For the 2019
award, Musah will travel to Stockholm, Sweden to attend the symposium on
“Proteomics and Its Application to Translational and Precision Medicine,”
where she’ll present on “Patient-Derived Stem Cell Models for Mechanistic
Studies of Human Kidney Disease.”

Musah’s research is centered around the use of patient-derived stem cells to
understand the mechanisms of human kidney disease, a disorder that affects
more than 10 percent of the world’s population. Healthy kidneys filter blood,
removing waste and extra fluid as urine to keep our bodies healthy. But when
kidney function breaks down, dangerous levels of fluid and waste can build up
in the body, damaging the heart, brain and immune system. Because many
patients don’t exhibit early symptoms of kidney disease, the illness isn’t
typically diagnosed until kidney function is severely impaired. This often
means that patients must go on dialysis, which only delays the necessity of a
kidney transplant.

At the symposium, Musah will discuss how her lab uses induced pluripotent stem
cells and Organ Chip (organs-on-chips) technology to develop key kidney cells,
known as podocytes, providing an opportunity to engineer a functional human
kidney model.

“By reprogramming a patient’s own cells to stem cells, and then
differentiating them to specific cell types such as podocytes and proximal
tubule epithelial cells, we can understand like never before how human tissues
develop and function in health and disease” says Musah. According to Musah,
this work could help researchers begin to identify biomarkers for kidney
disease and develop novel therapeutics for the illness.

Read the new faculty profile of Musah

Explore her lab's website

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

