

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# What's in North Carolina's Drinking Water?

February 10, 2020

Faculty report on potential contaminants in the state's drinking water—and how
they are helping us get a handle on the problem

_From Duke Today_

Heather Stapleton's research into PFAS, a group of potentially harmful
chemicals, began in her own kitchen. Stapleton knew that her fellow scientists
were beginning to look more closely at the compounds – often called "forever
chemicals" because of to their persistence in the environment. So she decided
to test her home's drinking water for their presence.

The high PFAS levels she found in her own tap surprised her.

"This raised two questions in my mind," Stapleton said. "Where was it coming
from? And how well did the water filter in my home remove these compounds?"

Stapleton, the Dan and Bunny Gabel Associate Professor of Environmental Health
at Duke's Nicholas School of the Environment, now studies the presence of PFAS
in drinking water in several N.C. communities. On Feb. 5, she joined Duke
colleagues Avner Vengosh and Lee Ferguson and Detlef Knappe of N.C. State
University at a media briefing on emerging contaminants that threaten North
Carolina drinking water quality. These researchers are working to help North
Carolinians better understand and respond to those potential threats.

As a group, the researchers study a range of compounds that pose potential
drinking water hazards. At the briefing, Stapleton and Ferguson, an associate
professor of civil and environmental engineering at the Nicholas School and
the Pratt School of Engineering, outlined their work monitoring PFAS levels in
water supplies. Vengosh, professor of earth and ocean sciences at the Nicholas
School, described threats posed by coal ash and naturally occurring hexavalent
chromium. And Knappe, the S. James Ellen Distinguished Professor of Civil,
Construction and Environmental Engineering at N.C. State, discussed a
contaminant known as 1,4-Dioxane.

## A STATEWIDE TESTING NETWORK

PFAS, a group of man-made industrial chemicals, have drawn attention because
some types have been linked to health problems, including cancer, thyroid
disorder and immune system disorders. Other types of PFAS have been little
studied, and scientists are still determining their potential health effects.

In response to concerns about the chemicals, the state of North Carolina in
2018 created an ambitious statewide testing network to monitor PFAS levels in
N.C. drinking water. Lee Ferguson helps lead the state PFAS testing network,
together with colleagues from N.C. State and UNC-Chapel Hill. The network
represents a wide-ranging attempt to monitor the compounds' presence in
drinking water supplies in 405 municipalities across the state.

North Carolina's drinking water is at a higher risk for PFAS contamination
because of the variety of industrial, military and other sites in the state,
Ferguson said. While normal levels have been found in most communities, the
tests have revealed high levels in some locations, including Brunswick County
and the Orange County Water and Sewer Authority (OWASA).

Researchers have made a point of being transparent with their findings,
sharing data with affected communities wherever high levels have been found,
Ferguson said.

Some positive changes have already resulted. For instance, when researchers
discovered high levels of PFAS in the water in Maysville, N.C., they alerted
community leaders, and local authorities quickly took steps to switch to a
different water source.

The PFAS network plans to make test results for all 405 sites available
publicly, Ferguson noted.

## THE LASTING EFFECT OF COAL ASH

In some parts of North Carolina, coal ash, a residue left from burning coal
for fuel, continues to threaten water supplies, Vengosh said. Vengosh has
found high levels of coal ash solids in locations such as Sutton Lake, a
former coal-ash disposal site in southeastern N.C.

In a recent settlement with the North Carolina Department of Environmental
Quality, Duke Energy agreed to excavate nearly 80 million tons of coal ash
from unlined ponds and move it to lined landfills. The settlement represents
an important breakthrough in N.C. environmental policy, Vengosh said. But he
warned that the agreement does not cover unmonitored coal ash spills or the
use of coal ash as a soil fill.

"I expect that we will face the environmental legacy of coal ash for decades
to come," he said.

Vengosh also described his research on hexavalent chromium, a carcinogen that
occurs naturally in some N.C. soils. Vengosh's study found the compound in
half of wells that were tested in central N.C.

> "I expect that we will face the environmental legacy of coal ash for decades
> to come."  
> \-- Avner Vengosh

Since private well owners have no obligation to test their water, many don't
know what's in it, Vengosh said. And while testing water for hexavalent
chromium can be expensive, there is a less costly alternative. "Our research
shows that testing for total chromium can be a good proxy for detecting the
presence of hexavalent chromium, and those tests are cheaper and more common,"
he said.

Another contaminant, called 1,4-Dioxane, has been found in high concentrations
in locations such as the Cape Fear watershed and Pittsboro, said Detlef Knappe
of N.C. State. The compound, classified by the EPA as a likely carcinogen, is
often a byproduct of manufacturing processes, and can end up in a
manufacturing facility's wastewater, Knappe said.

Where water quality is concerned, Knappe added, there's a risk of focusing too
narrowly on one potential contaminant at a time – and missing others.

"Maybe we'll develop a new framework in the future, (in which) we don't
regulate one compound at a time, but instead start to think more broadly," he
said.

Meanwhile, the list of compounds that may affect water quality continues to
grow, Ferguson added. That makes this the wrong time to lessen protections on
water quality, he said.

"If we're rolling back clean water protections, we're going in the wrong
direction," Ferguson said.

## ABOUT THAT HOME WATER FILTER

Yet as scientists race to track down and measure various potential water
contaminants and their effects, what are ordinary citizens to do? One possible
response is to invest in a home water filter, as Heather Stapleton did.

In a new study, however, Stapleton and her colleagues, including Knappe and
Ferguson, find that while using a filter does help, not all filters perform
equally well in removing PFAS. Reverse osmosis filters and dual-stage filters
did the best job. Other filters, including whole-house and tabletop filters,
ranged widely in how effective they were in removing the compounds.

For those who do use a home water filter, Stapleton has a piece of general
advice: Change it frequently. When filters weren't changed often enough, the
researchers found, they became saturated and may actually make drinking water
quality worse.

"How often you change filters really matters," she said.

## LEARN MORE

  * Avner Vengosh on Coal Ash and Hexavalent Chromium
  * Heather Stapleton on Which Water Filters Remove PFAS
  * Lee Ferguson and N.C.’s PFAS Testing Network

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

