

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Developing New Strategies for Cancer Drug Delivery, in Denmark and at Duke

January 12, 2017 | By Mark Schreiner

Duke MEMS researcher’s five-year, $6-million appointment as a Niels Bohr
Professor in Odense Denmark creates a vibrant center for research, launches
new collaborations back at Duke

In his role as an internationally prominent Niels Bohr Professor, Duke’s David
Needham has established the Center for Single Particle Science and Engineering
at Southern Denmark University (SDU) in Odense, Denmark. Four years after its
launch, the center is making great progress towards its goal of improving
cancer drug delivery—and recently received high praise from an international
review panel for its work.

The research center Needham created has as its primary goal developing novel
strategies using micro- and nano- technology to improve drug delivery,
specifically for cancer treatments.

Needham, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke’s
Pratt School of Engineering and member of the Duke Cancer Institute, was one
of six international scientists to receive the prestigious award from the
Danish National Research Foundation (DNRF) in 2012.

His work in Denmark was supported by $5 million from the foundation, plus $1
million in co-financing from SDU. After his inauguration, the center was
created at SDU, featuring six micropipette manipulation stations capable of
forming and analyzing microscopic interfaces and microparticles that can be as
small as 1/10 of a human hair.

“Basically, they gave me $6 million to do whatever I wanted,” Needham said. “I
had to do this.”

The main application of his fundamental studies into the physical chemistry,
colloid, and material science of microparticles has been to make and
characterize a particular prodrug nanoparticle for anti-cancer diagnostics and
therapeutics-- what Needham’s close collaborator, Poul Flemming Høilund-
Carlsen, in Odense University Hospital’s Department of Nuclear Medicine, likes
to call, “diapeutics.”

“The concept is to figure out what a cancer cells eat, and then put the drug
in the cancer’s food,” Needham said.

It turns out that among many things, cancers eat the body’s own, low density
lipoprotein (LDL) particles--tiny particles that are made in the liver and
circulate around the bloodstream, delivering lipids and cholesterol to the
cells of the body.

“They are about 20 nanometers in diameter --that is only 5/1000th the diameter
of a human hair,” Needham said. “So this is where our nanoparticle science and
engineering comes into play.”

Needham’s team can make the prodrug nanoparticles the same size as these LDLs
and, in studies where the prodrug nanoparticles (made of niclosamide stearate)
are added to cancer cells in a culture dish, they perform as well as the free
drug Niclosamide, and at low concentration.

“The prodrug nanoparticles kill all the cancer cells at just 10 micro molar, a
concentration of about three grains of sugar in a cup of coffee,” Needham
said. “But doctor’s can’t effectively administer Niclosamide to a patient
using the existing oral tablets, while the nanoparticles could be injected
intravenously”.

An article describing initial feasibility studies was published in the Journal
of Drug Targeting.

This summer, the Danish National Research Foundation sponsored a regular
review of Needham’s research group by an expert external panel, which gave the
team its highest grade, denoting _“Excellence from an international
perspective”_. The panel praised the center for having a well-trained staff of
enthusiastic scientists and concluded the center is likely to
_“catalyze/establish a new approach to the development of diagnostics and
therapeutics that will have a major impact”_.

The evaluation panel was made up of three world-class scholars, Olaf Sparre
Andersen MD, of Cornell University, Ursula Ravens, MD, of Technische
Universitaet Dresden in Germany, and Bengt Norden of Chalmers University of
Technology, Sweden-- a former chairman of the Nobel Prize selection committee
for Chemistry. The review of the Center took a whole day when the panel saw
research presentations and posters, and reviewed a book of abstracts compiled
by Needham’s team.

“Our post-docs and students each presented to the distinguished panel, as
though it was a mini-symposium session at a scientific meeting,” said Needham,
who has focused on training the next generation of researchers as a key part
of his role. “They did an excellent job, and showed that they were well on
their way to becoming independent scientists in their own right.”

As his term as Niels Bohr Professor draws to a close in 2018, Needham is now
bringing his new approach to anti-cancer diapeutics home to the Duke Cancer
Institute for testing. He is building new collaborations with Will Eward MD,
DVM, in Surgical Oncology and his Comparative Oncology Clinic.

He will also work with professors Greg Palmer, PhD, and Gabi Hanna, MD, and
their team in cancer center’s Preclinical Translational Research Unit, who are
conducting the first animal studies of the new nanoparticles.

“I’m nearly 64 years old”, said Needham with a smile. “And as I said at my
Honorary DSc degree speech at the University of Nottingham last December, its
time for me to leave a ‘lineage and a legacy.' And so I am preparing the three
institutions - Duke, Nottingham, and SDU - to work as an international
consortium of anticancer Diapeutic research, preclinical testing and hopefully
implementation into human clinical trials."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

