

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Needham Awarded Honorary Degree from University of Nottingham

January 29, 2016

David Needham has been a professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke since 1987

David Needham has been awarded an honorary doctorate degree by the University
of Nottingham. Described by the university as the highest honor that it can
bestow, the Doctor of Science _honoris causa_ (without examination) was
presented during the pharmacy school’s graduation ceremony on Thursday,
December 10, 2015.

As described in the graduation booklet, the DSc degree is given “to people of
great distinction in their field and those who have given great success to the
university.” In Needham’s case, both descriptions are true.

After earning his doctorate in chemistry from the University of Nottingham,
Needham decided that if he was going to work that hard, he wanted to do
something useful. Inspired by his mother’s bout with breast cancer in 1972,
Needham turned his attention to cancer research during his PhD in 1978 in the
chemistry department at Nottingham. It was a good decision, as he has gained a
world-wide reputation in the field over the past three-and-a-half decades.

Joining Duke University’s faculty in 1987, Needham’s research focused on lipid
bilayers—the membrane material that surrounds every living cell. While
studying this material, he responded to the need for better targeting of drugs
at the sites of tumors.

After starting a collaboration in 1991 with Mark Dewhirst, professor of
radiation oncology and director of the Duke Hyperthermia Program, Dewhirst
made a request for “something I can heat and it releases drug.” In 1996,
Needham invented a technique where anti-cancer chemotherapeutics are loaded
into tiny “nano-capsules” made of lipids.

When injected into the patient’s blood stream, the lipids protect the body
from this very toxic chemotherapy by keeping it in the capsule. But once
heated, they release their contents into the heat-targeted tumor. This novel
anti-cancer therapeutic was licensed by Duke to Celsion Corporation in 1999
and is currently in Phase III clinical trials for a range of cancers,
including primary liver cancer and chest wall recurrence of breast cancer
after mastectomy.

With this first treatment now well on its way, Needham has shifted his focus
to a concept he calls “putting the drug in the cancer’s food,” which, if
successful, he wants to offer at cost, for no profit. He is pursuing this new
concept for an anti-metastatic treatment by virtue of a $6.5 million, five-
year award from the Danish National Research Foundation as the Niels Bohr
Visiting Professor to the University of Southern Denmark.

But Needham has done more than make his doctoral Alma Mater proud—he’s also
contributing to its legacy in person. In 2013, he returned to the University
of Nottingham as a visiting honorary professor in the pharmacy school—one of
the top pharmacy schools in the world. There, he has continued to innovate in
the laboratory as well as the classroom, helping to implement a style of
learning he calls EDU-Kation. EDU-K stands for: **E** xperiment and **D**
iscover (themselves), **U** ncover (principles with experts), leading to the
student’s new **K** nowledge. (More information on Needham’s honorary
professorship and EDU-Kation.)

One of the goals of the visiting honorary professorship is to encourage new
collaboration with the University of Nottingham’s pharmacy school, which is
well on its way. Needham is already part of a new Engineering and Physical
Sciences Research Council (EPSRC)-£5.4 million ($7.7M) grant entitled, "Next
Generation Biomaterials Discovery,” which was recently awarded to the
University of Nottingham. He is currently writing new grant proposals to
establish his single micro- and nano-particle science and engineering research
techniques and methodologies at Nottingham University, aimed to enhance their
efforts in new and advanced pharmaceutic designs and formulations.

At the graduation ceremony, Phil Williams, professor and head of the division
of biophysics and surface analysis at the University of Nottingham, was
David’s official Orator. Introducing Needham during the graduation ceremony,
Williams shared a little about Needham and his many achievements.

Williams told the graduation-assembly of how one of David’s mentors, Evan
Evans, then of the University of British Columbia, had said of him, “David is
a brilliant, intuitive scientist who runs to the lab and quickly assembles a
simple experiment to reveal deep insights into the unknown complexity of
whatever chemical concoction or colloidal soup that interests him! Moreover,
he then senses the hidden opportunity to engineer some new advance in material
science that aids human health and well-being (e.g. from "sighting devices" to
aid downtrodden dart throwers in a pub to nano-drug delivery systems to cure
cancer patients).”

Williams also provided a quote from Dewhirst, who, as his long-time colleague,
said of David,“He has never taken a single piece of data at face value. He has
always pushed to understand how an experiment was done –how to interpret
results in light of his knowledge of biophysics. David has been tenacious in
pushing the company to fulfill its obligations. David was the lone soldier
doing battle. There is no doubt that his reluctance to accept defeat has
contributed to their successes.”

Professor Williams closed his oration by saying, “David’s intuition,
innovation and rigor in research, passion for education, and commitment to
improve the health and wellbeing of society is something that we all look
forward to benefitting from in the future.”

Needham responded during his address, appropriately entitled, “Lineage and
Legacy” to the several hundred graduation students by giving credit for his
success to those who had mentored him along the way. He also noted that he is
now leaving his own legacy, passing on the lineage to his students, postdocs
and colleagues, and administrators. He ended by encouraging the new graduates
to remember their own teachings and the mentors to recognize their own
efforts.

“So as you leave here today, reflect just briefly on your mentors, what they
may have said in passing, their advice, generosity, and methodology of how to
behave in your chosen profession or in research and development if some of you
are heading in that direction. And to the mentors, do take the time to reflect
on your own legacy, they are sitting here right in front of you.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

