

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Method for Producing Clean Hydrogen

May 21, 2013

Duke University engineers have developed a novel method for producing clean
hydrogen, which could prove essential to weaning society off of fossil fuels
and their environmental implications.

by Richard Merritt

DURHAM, N.C. -- Duke University engineers have developed a novel method for
producing clean hydrogen, which could prove essential to weaning society off
of fossil fuels and their environmental implications.

While hydrogen is ubiquitous in the environment, producing and collecting
molecular hydrogen for transportation and industrial uses is expensive and
complicated. Just as importantly, a byproduct of most current methods of
producing hydrogen is carbon monoxide, which is toxic to humans and animals.

The Duke engineers, using a new catalytic approach, have shown in the
laboratory that they can reduce carbon monoxide levels to nearly zero in the
presence of hydrogen and the harmless byproducts of carbon dioxide and water.
They also demonstrated that they could produce hydrogen by reforming fuel at
much lower temperatures than conventional methods, which makes it a more
practical option.

Catalysts are agents added to promote chemical reactions. In this case, the
catalysts were nanoparticle combinations of gold and iron oxide (rust), but
not in the traditional sense. Current methods depend on gold nanoparticles’
ability to drive the process as the sole catalyst, while the Duke researchers
made both the iron oxide and the gold the focus of the catalytic process.

The study appears online in the Journal of Catalysis.

“Our ultimate goal is to be able to produce hydrogen for use in fuel cells,”
said Titilayo “Titi” Shodiya, a graduate student working in the laboratory of
senior researcher Nico Hotz, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and
materials science at Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering. “Everyone is
interested in sustainable and non-polluting ways of producing useful energy
without fossil fuels,” said Shodiya, the paper's first author.

Fuel cells produce electricity through chemical reactions, most commonly
involving hydrogen. Also, many industrial processes require hydrogen as a
chemical reagent and vehicles are beginning to use hydrogen as a primary fuel
source.

“We were able through our system to consistently produce hydrogen with less
than 0.002 percent (20 parts per million) of carbon monoxide,” Shodiya said.

The Duke researchers achieved these levels by switching the recipe for the
nanoparticles used as catalysts for the reactions to oxidize carbon monoxide
in hydrogen-rich gases. Traditional methods of cleaning hydrogen, which are
not nearly as efficient as this new approach, also involve gold-iron oxide
nanoparticles as the catalyst, the researchers said.

“It had been assumed that the iron oxide nanoparticles were only ‘scaffolds’
holding the gold nanoparticles together, and that the gold was responsible for
the chemical reactions,” Sodiya said. “However, we found that increasing the
surface area of the iron oxide dramatically increased the catalytic activity
of the gold.”

One of the newest approaches to producing renewable energy is the use of
biomass-derived alcohol-based sources, such as methanol. When methanol is
treated with steam, or reformed, it creates a hydrogen-rich mixture that can
be used in fuel cells.

“The main problem with this approach is that it also produces carbon monoxide,
which is not only toxic to life, but also quickly damages the catalyst on fuel
cell membranes that are crucial to the functioning of a fuel cell,” Hotz said.
“It doesn’t take much carbon monoxide to ruin these membranes.”

The researchers ran the reaction for more than 200 hours and found no
reduction in the ability of the catalyst to reduce the amount of carbon
monoxide in the hydrogen gas.

“The mechanism for this is not exactly understood yet. However, while current
thinking is that the size of the gold particles is key, we believe the
emphasis of further research should focus on iron oxide’s role in the
process,” Shodiya said.

The Duke team’s research was supported by the California Energy Commission and
the Oak Ridge Associated Universities. Duke postdoctoral associates Oliver
Schmidt and Wen Peng were also part of the research team.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

