

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Engineering Graduate Communications Center Offers Courses and Coaching

September 17, 2018

Offerings range from mastering conversation to effective writing to giving a
research presentation

Before Wenlin Wu decided to come to Duke to study for a master’s in
engineering, he had worked hard to learn English.

He was reading and writing in English at a high level. But the challenge, he
said, was conversation.

Chinese students studying in the U.S. are “really good at reading and writing,
and even listening, but we are afraid to make a mistake in conversation,” he
said. “It’s embarrassing to make a mistake. So, often the safest way is no
talking at all.”

> Before Wenlin Wu decided to come to Duke for a master’s in engineering, he
> was reading and writing in English at a high level. But the challenge, he
> said, was conversation.

This presents a serious issue, not only for international students, but for
the learning community of students and faculty which depends one everyone’s
active participation, said Bridget Fletcher, director of the Graduate
Communications Center at Duke Engineering.

Wu received tools to tackle his conversational anxiety in a pilot class
Fletcher taught last fall on the intricacies and subtleties of conversation in
American English. International students learned about slang and about social
conventions, like eye contact. The course included lots of practical
opportunities to practice speaking. The learners reported increased confidence
that helped them succeed as graduate students.

Now, in fall 2018, Fletcher and colleagues have launched a new suite of
communication courses, coaching services and workshops for all Duke
Engineering graduate students, domestic and international—the Duke Engineering
Graduate Communications Center at Pratt (GCC @ Pratt).

GCC’s services are available to all engineering graduate students in the PhD,
Master of Science, Master of Engineering and Master of Engineering Management
degree programs.

“The GCC is an outgrowth of Bridget’s insightful research into the language
and cultural challenges faced by international students studying engineering
in the United States,” said Brad Fox, Duke Engineering’s associate dean of
master’s programs. “It’s also grounded in the fundamental understanding that
good communication skills are essential for each one of our graduate students,
no matter where they come from.”

The essence of education, work and life is communicating well, Fletcher
said—asking questions, working in a team or with a client, and publishing
research results.

> “When members of a community are understood, and are communicating
> effectively, the community benefits and each person in it is positioned for
> success.”
>
> — **Bridget Fletcher** , Director, Graduate Communication Center

“When members of a community are understood, and are communicating
effectively, the community benefits and each person in it is positioned for
success,” she said.

The new GCC team began providing training during graduate student orientation
in late August. Four workshops touched on topics including U.S. classroom
expectations and tips for effectively communicating by email. There was also a
session for domestic students on understanding the challenges, social and
linguistic, faced by their international colleagues.

The session offered ideas for how they could most effectively engage with
international peers and leverage the wealth of knowledge and perspectives they
bring to Duke.

Intercultural awareness among all students is critical, Fletcher said, because
all students work and study together, especially with the increasing
prevalence of team-based learning.

Giving just one insight into the challenges, Fletcher noted vastly different
conversational styles, which she analogizes as “basketball vs. bowling.” North
Americans “play basketball”—converse in groups with rapid shifts in speaker
and topic, often interrupting one another. She contrasts that with an Asian
style of group conservation, “bowling,” in which each person takes a very
clear turn during conversation.

Joining Fletcher on the GCC team are four communications consultants: Minerva
Matos-Garner, Sue Mathias, Marcie Pachino and one more, yet to be hired. Each
will provide course instruction and workshops as well as one-on-one coaching
available to all graduate students.

Minerva Matos-Garner was first to join GCC before the start of the fall
semester. She previously taught and coached communications for students at
N.C. State University. She has deep experience working with students whose
native languages are not English.

“Language is my passion,” she said. “I have seen language courses literally
change lives—they have that power.”

> “The Graduate Communication Center is grounded in the fundamental
> understanding that good communication skills are essential for each one of
> our graduate students, no matter where they come from.”
>
> — **BRAD FOX** , ASSOCIATE DEAN OF MASTER'S PROGRAMS

The GCC offers semester-long courses, individual and small group
communications coaching appointments and skill-specific workshops. Students
can access these services directly, or can be referred by a faculty or staff
member. Faculty members can also include visits to the GCC for coaching
sessions as part of their graduate course requirements.

This semester, GCC staff are providing courses on conversational English,
engineering presentations and two levels of academic writing for engineers.

In one-on-one and group appointments, the communication specialists can
provide feedback on writing for class assignments, email drafts and
presentation outlines. Help is available as well for oral communications,
including preliminary and defense practice.

There are also English conversation practice sessions available.

_More information at:_ ** _pratt.duke.edu/grad/students/comms-intercultural-
programs_**

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

