

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A New View of Phase Transitions

March 2, 2015

Vizualizing how matter changes from one state to another, on an atomic level

The Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle states that we can’t know both the
position and velocity of the smallest particles at the same time, making it
impossible to track an electron’s trajectory. Even if there were a way around
this, science does not have the experimental tools necessary to visualize
atomic motions in real time; they’re just too small.

Because of these limitations, little is known about the pathways of atomic
reorganization during phase transitions, such as water freezing into ice or
evaporating into mist. Researchers at Duke, however, are catching glimpses of
how atoms likely behave thanks to model systems at a large enough scale that
they can be visualized with an optical microscope.

In a recent study published in Soft Matter, Benjamin Yellen, associate
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke University,
and his colleagues, Josh Socolar and Patrick Charbonneau in Duke’s physics and
chemistry departments, respectively, use a single layer of microscopic
colloidal particles suspended in a thin liquid medium to watch phase
transitions in action. By varying the strength and direction of an external
magnetic field, Yellen and colleagues can adjust the strength and direction of
the particle interactions, closely approximating the bonding interactions at
work on the atomic scale.

“This allows us to ‘melt’ the crystalline structures that the particles have
formed by turning the magnetic field off, and then to ‘freeze’ them again by
increasing the field strength,” said Yellen. “It’s a nice system for doing
these types of studies because we have the ability to control the field in a
manner that’s similar to being able to control the temperature.”

Besides watching crystalline structures grow and anneal, Yellen and his
graduate students Ye Yang, Lin Fu and Catherine Marcoux used the technique to
create the first-ever visualization of how particles in a compound alloy
behave during a martensitic phase transition. Martensitic phase transitions
occur when heated materials cool rapidly, causing certain patterns of
crystalline deformation. These phase transitions play a role in shape memory
materials, refrigeration materials, and are even used to create harder forms
of tempered steel.

Yellen hopes that being able to see how atoms move during phase transitions
will allow scientists to understand these transformations at a deeper level,
opening new doors for tuning material properties far beyond steel.

“People have speculated that martensitic transformations could occur in
various ways and they have performed computational models to predict what
would happen, but they’d never seen it before,” said Yellen. “Perhaps the
ability to watch these transformations in our model system may help materials
scientists learn how these microscopic motions relate to the diffraction
patterns they observe.”

This work was supported by the Triangle Materials Science and Research
Engineering Center.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

