

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Faculty Join BME

August 24, 2017

Six new researchers will join BME, bringing together expertise in soft matter
research, biomaterials and novel biomedical imaging techniques

Roarke Horstmeyer

Roarke Horstmeyer will join Duke University on July 1, 2018, as an assistant
professor of biomedical engineering. Dr. Horstmeyer is interested in exploring
new ways to capture and process biomedical images. He develops microscopes,
cameras and computer algorithms for a wide range of applications, from forming
3D reconstructions of organisms to detecting neurons deep within tissue. His
work lies at the intersection of optics, biology, signal processing and
optimization.

A doctoral graduate of Caltech’s electrical engineering department, Dr.
Horstmeyer is currently an Einstein International Postdoctoral Fellow with the
Judkewitz lab at Charitè Medical School in Berlin, where he is working to
apply digital optical phase conjugation in neuroscience. He earned a master of
science from the MIT Media Lab and bachelor’s degrees in Physics and Japanese
from Duke University. See his full profile here

* * *

_Michael Rubinstein_

Michael Rubinstein will join the faculty of Duke University’s Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS) beginning January 1, 2018,
with joint appointments in the Departments of Biomedical Engineering,
Chemistry and Physics. An internationally recognized expert in the fields of
polymer theory and computer simulations, Rubinstein will contribute to the
growing interdisciplinary focus on collaborative polymer and soft-matter
research across Duke.

Throughout his career, Rubinstein has used his experience with polymers and
soft matter to begin new partnerships and advance unique collaborations, both
with faculty at his own university and with research groups around the globe.

Now, as he begins a new chapter at Duke, Rubinstein––who has also been named a
MEDx investigator in recognition of his work spanning engineering and
medicine–– hopes to continue to use his research and multiple appointments to
advance collaborative efforts with faculty throughout the university. Read
Rubinstein's full profile here

* * *

_Ann Saterbak_

As a faculty member at Duke, Ann Saterbak is the director of the new Duke
Engineering First-Year Experience. The award-winning engineering education
expert arrived on campus in the spring of 2017 and began the new program with
a pilot course for 50 first-year students during the fall semester. Saterback
received Theo C. Pilkington Outstanding Educator Award from the American
Society for Engineering Education-Biomedical Engineering Division for her
significant contributions to innovations in BME education, and the new design
program aligns with her goals to broaden students’ problem solving skills and
design thinking.

“There’s a real opportunity at Duke to affect engineering on a wide scale with
a first-year experience applicable to all engineering students,” said
Saterbak, who comes to Duke from Rice University, where she was associate dean
for engineering education and led efforts to infuse hands-on opportunities and
design thinking into the undergraduate program. Read more about Saterbak's re-
design of the new cirriculum here

* * *

_Tatiana Segura_ __

Tatiana Segura will join the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering with joint appointments in
dermatology and neurology in Duke’s School of Medicine beginning March 1,
2018. By engineering hydrogel biomaterials that support and promote cell
growth, Segura seeks to unlock the body’s innate ability to repair damaged or
diseased tissue—adding to an expanding core of soft-matter engineering
expertise at Duke.

Segura says she is also excited to work with both graduate and undergraduate
students at Duke. For most of her career, she has filled her laboratory
exclusively with students, only recently hiring postdocs to expand the
expertise and mentorship available to her researchers in training.

“When students first start out they’re young and excited. They think
everything is just about the coolest thing they’ve ever seen,” said Segura,
who also runs a summer research program for underrepresented minority students
in her laboratory. “That eagerness helps them come up with ideas that I never
would have thought of and helps keep me energized. I’m excited to work with
the different students Duke has to offer and see what we can achieve
together.” Read her full profile here

* * *

_Michael Tadross_

Michael Tadross joined the BME department at Duke in July of 2017. Developer
of a potentially revolutionary technology that can precisely deliver drugs to
any specific cell type, Tadross will use his breakthrough to better understand
how pharmaceuticals affect the human brain.

In the past decade, a new technique called optogenetics—genetically
programming cells to respond to light—has revolutionized how neural circuits
are examined. In numerous studies, neurobiologists have used optogenetics to
cause a precise group of neurons to fire or remain silent in an attempt to
understand their roles in the greater network.

But according to Tadross, much more needs to be done. Though revolutionary,
optogenetics has only scratched the surface of how neurons work. From the
standpoint of the cells being manipulated, optogenetics can be thought of as a
first-pass binary manipulation—a sledgehammer that completely silences or
activates cells. But drugs can be a lot more nuanced in their effects – indeed
they had to be. Read more about his work here

* * *

_Shyni Varghese_

Shyni Varghese joined the faculty of Duke University’s engineering and medical
schools during the summer of 2017\. With a triple appointment in the
Departments of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science, and Orthopaedic Surgery, Varghese serves as the first MEDx
Investigator.

A new initiative of the Pratt School of Engineering and Duke School of
Medicine, Duke MEDx seeks to enhance and form new collaborations between
doctors and engineers. As its first faculty member with a joint appointment
through the program, Varghese will demonstrate just how powerful such
partnerships can become.

A leader in the field of biomaterials and stem cells, Varghese will continue
to develop her research at Duke in three major areas—musculoskeletal tissue
repair, disease biophysics and organ-on-a-chip technology. Read her full
profile here

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

