

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A New Way of Looking at Melanomas and Renaissance Paintings

May 6, 2015 | By Mary-Russell Roberson

Duke chemist Warren S. Warren has won the 2015 C. E. K. Mees Medal, which
recognizes work that transcends disciplinary boundaries

During the last decade, Duke chemist Warren S. Warren has developed and
refined a laser technique to help practitioners in both medicine and art see
more deeply. For his work, Warren is receiving the 2015 C. E. K. Mees Medal,
an award given biennially by the Optical Society of America to recognize work
that transcends disciplinary boundaries.

The laser technique Warren has developed can be used to examine the chemical
composition and structure of skin moles, providing information that may one
day help doctors predict which melanomas will metastasize. The same technique
sheds new light on pigment and paint layers in old paintings, without
requiring the removal of any paint.

“The problems we look at absolutely cannot be pigeonholed into individual
departments,” said Warren, who is the James B. Duke Professor of Chemistry,
with secondary appointments in the departments of radiology, biomedical
engineering, and physics. “This is the strength of Duke—we have good physical
proximity to the basic science departments, engineering and the basic medical
sciences, and we have a lot of people who buy into this idea that individual
departmental boundaries don’t make a lot of sense.”

Warren regularly transcends the boundaries of Duke as well, whether working
with scientists at other universities or art conservators at the North
Carolina Museum of Art, the National Gallery in Washington or in Europe.

To see more clearly into both moles and paintings, Warren builds custom
microscopes that use two laser pulses separated in time by picoseconds (each
of which is one trillionth of a second). The first pulse excites the molecules
of the compound being studied and the second probes the result. The technique,
called pump-probe spectroscopy, takes a picture showing the concentration and
arrangement of certain pigments in the sample, essentially creating a
molecular fingerprint.

While pump-probe spectroscopy has been around for decades, it originally
required powerful lasers that wouldn’t be appropriate for old paintings or
human skin. Warren and his team developed technology to “sculpt” less powerful
beams to create a safe yet effective probe that can be used to examine
materials to a depth of about 1 mm, allowing a view beneath the surface of
skin or a painting.

“We were able to figure out how to use less power than a laser pointer and
still get out the critical information,” he said. The critical information for
an old painting might be the chemical composition of the pigments. For
example, Warren’s pump-probe lasers can distinguish synthetic blue pigments
from those made of lapis lazuli, even though they look identical to the naked
eye. Information like this can help determine the provenance, age or author of
a painting.

Pump-probe spectroscopy can also create a virtual cross-section of the layers
of a painting, eliminating the need to take a sample with a scalpel. Warren
and his team have analyzed several paintings in the lab, and are working on a
portable laser system that could be used in art museums.

In the case of suspicious moles, pump-probe spectroscopy has the potential to
improve the diagnosis of melanoma. Currently that diagnosis involves slicing,
staining and studying the structure of a mole under a microscope, a process
whose accuracy relies heavily on physician experience.

If the diagnosis is melanoma, the standard protocol is “watchful waiting”
after removal. For most patients, the cancer never comes back, but for an
unlucky minority, the cancer metastasizes in another part of the body. “The
doctor would really like to know, is the cancer likely to metastasize or not?”
Warren said.

With his laser system, Warren can slice a mole virtually, analyzing the
content of each layer. He and his students have done just this for hundreds of
excised and preserved moles. “The way we use the laser pulses gives us this
extra information about chemical content and molecular composition,” Warren
said. “We’ve been able to see fundamental differences in the lesions between
those that went on to metastasize and those that didn’t.”

Warren would like to set up a multi-center clinical trial to test more mole
samples. If the results hold up, he envisions the technology may one day be
used routinely to examine removed moles.

“Warren’s work in melanoma has enormous potential,” said Bruce Tromberg,
professor of biomedical engineering and surgery at the University of
California, Irvine, and the director of the Beckman Laser Institute and
Medical Clinic. “He’s approaching this from a fresh perspective and has put
together a very talented team. His techniques are providing us with new
insight and are stimulating fresh ideas and conversations in our field.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

