

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Class of Molecular 'Lightbulbs' Illuminate MRI

March 28, 2016

Discovery could enable cheaper, more versatile bioimaging

Originally published on Duke Today

Duke University researchers have taken a major step towards realizing a new
form of MRI that could record biochemical reactions in the body as they
happen.

In the March 25 issue of Science Advances, they report the discovery of a new
class of molecular tags that enhance MRI signals by 10,000-fold and generate
detectable signals that last over an hour. The tags are biocompatible and
inexpensive to produce, paving the way for widespread use of magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) to monitor metabolic processes of conditions like
cancer and heart disease in real time.

“This represents a completely new class of molecules that doesn’t look
anything at all like what people thought could be made into MRI tags,” said
Warren S. Warren, James B. Duke Professor and Chair of Physics at Duke, and
senior author on the study. “We envision it could provide a whole new way to
use MRI to learn about the biochemistry of disease.”

MRI takes advantage of a property called spin, which makes the nuclei in
hydrogen atoms act like tiny magnets. Applying a strong magnetic field,
followed by a series of radio waves, induces these hydrogen magnets to
broadcast their locations. Since most of the hydrogen atoms in the body are
bound up in water, the technique is used in clinical settings to create
detailed images of soft tissues like organs, blood vessels and tumors inside
the body.

But the technique also has the potential to show body chemistry in action,
said Thomas Theis, assistant research professor of chemistry at Duke and co-
lead author on the paper. “With magnetic resonance in general, you have this
unique sensitivity to chemical transformations. You can see them and track
them in real time,” Theis said.

MRI’s ability to track chemical transformations in the body has been limited
by the low sensitivity of the technique, which makes small numbers of
molecules impossible to detect without using unattainably massive magnetic
fields.

For the past decade, researchers have been developing methods to
“hyperpolarize” biologically important molecules, converting them into what
Warren calls magnetic resonance “lightbulbs.”

With this boosted signal, these “lightbulbs” can be detected even in low
numbers. “Hyperpolarization gives them 10,000 times more signal than they
would normally have if they had just been magnetized in an ordinary magnetic
field,” Warren said.

While promising, Warren says these hyperpolarization techniques face two
fundamental problems: incredibly expensive equipment -- around 3 million
dollars for one machine -- and most of these molecular lightbulbs burn out in
a matter of seconds.

“It’s hard to take an image with an agent that is only visible for seconds,
and there are a lot of biological processes you could never hope to see,” said
Warren. “We wanted to try to figure out what molecules could give extremely
long-lived signals so that you could look at slower processes.”

Jerry Ortiz Jr., a graduate student at Duke and co-lead author on the paper,
synthesized a series of molecules containing diazarines, a chemical structure
which is composed of two nitrogen atoms bound together in a ring. Diazirines
were a promising target for screening because their geometry traps
hyperpolarization in a “hidden state” where it cannot relax quickly.

Using a simple and inexpensive approach to hyperpolarization called SABRE-
SHEATH, in which the molecular tags are mixed with a spin-polarized form of
hydrogen and a catalyst, the researchers were able to rapidly hyperpolarize
one of the diazirine-containing molecules, greatly enhancing its magnetic
resonance signals for over an hour.

Qiu Wang, assistant professor of chemistry at Duke and co-author on the paper,
said this structure is a particularly exciting target for hyperpolarization
because it has already been demonstrated as a tag for other types of
biomedical imaging.

“It can be tagged on small molecules, macro molecules, amino acids, without
changing the intrinsic properties of the original compound,” said Wang. “We
are really interested to see if it would be possible to use it as a general
imaging tag.”

The scientists believe their SABRE-SHEATH catalyst could be used to
hyperpolarize a wide variety of chemical structures at a fraction of the cost
of other methods.

“You could envision, in five or ten years, you’ve got the container with the
catalyst, you’ve got the bulb with the hydrogen gas. In a minute, you’ve made
the hyperpolarized agent, and on the fly you could actually take an image,”
Warren said. “That is something that is simply inconceivable by any other
method.”

Other authors include Angus W. J. Logan, Kevin E. Claytor, Yesu Fang, William
P. Huhn, Volker Blum and Steven J. Malcolmson of Duke University and Eduard Y.
Chekmenev of Vanderbilt University.

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (CHE-1058727,
CHE-1363008, CHE-1416268), the National Institutes of Health (1R21EB018014),
the Department of Defense Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs
Breast Cancer grant (W81XWH-12-1-0159/BC112431), the Pratt School of
Engineering Research Innovation Seed Fund, the Burroughs Wellcome Fellowship
and the Donors of the American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund.

CITATION: "Direct and cost-efficient hyperpolarization of long-lived nuclear
spin states on universal 15N2-diazirine molecular tags," Thomas Theis, Gerardo
X. Ortiz Jr., Angus W. J. Logan, Kevin E. Claytor, Yesu Feng, William P. Huhn,
Volker Blum, Steven J. Malcolmson, Eduard Y. Chekmenev, Qiu Wang and Warren S.
Warren. Science Advances, March 25, 2016. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.1501438 The full
text can be found here in Duke Space, the university's online repository of
open-access research.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

