

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Next Generation Cloaking Device Demonstrated

January 15, 2009

Duke engineers have produced a device with a broad frequency bandwidth

A device that can bestow invisibility to an object by “cloaking” it from
visual light is closer to reality. After being the first to demonstrate the
feasibility of such a device by constructing a prototype in 2006, a team of
Duke University engineers have produced a new type of cloaking device, which
they said is significantly more sophisticated and has a broad frequency
bandwidth.

The latest advance was made possible by the development of a new series of
complex mathematical commands, known as algorithms, to guide the design and
fabrication of exotic composite materials known as metamaterials. These man-
made materials can be engineered to have properties not easily found in
natural materials, and can be used to form a variety of “cloaking” structures.
These structures can guide electromagnetic waves around an object, only to
have them emerge on the other side as if they had passed through an empty
volume of space.

The results of the Duke experiments were published Jan. 16 in the journal
Science. First authors of the paper were Duke’s Ruopeng Liu, who developed the
algorithm, and Chunlin Ji. David R. Smith, William Bevan Professor of
electrical and computer engineering at Duke, is senior member of the research
team.

Once the algorithm was developed, the latest cloaking device was completed
from conception to fabrication in nine days, compared to the four months
required to create the original, and more rudimentary, device. This powerful
new algorithm will make it possible to custom-design unique metamaterials with
specific cloaking characteristics, the researchers said.

“The difference between the original device and the latest model is like night
and day,” Smith said. “The new device can cloak a much wider spectrum of
waves—nearly limitless—and will scale far more easily to infrared and visible
light. The approach we used should help us expand and improve our abilities to
cloak different types of waves.”

Cloaking devices bend electromagnetic waves, such as light, in such a way that
it appears as if the cloaked object is not there. In the latest laboratory
experiments, a beam of microwaves aimed through the cloaking device at a
“bump” on a flat mirror surface bounced off the surface at the same angle as
if the bump was not present. Additionally, the device prevented the formation
of scattered beams that would normally be expected from such a perturbation.

The underlying cloaking phenomenon is similar to the mirages seen ahead at a
distance on a road on a hot day.

“You see what looks like water hovering over the road, but it is in reality a
reflection from the sky,” Smith explained. “In that example, the mirage you
see is cloaking the road below. In effect, we are creating an engineered
mirage with this latest cloak design.”

Smith believes that as the technology is perfected, cloaks should find
numerous applications. By eliminating the effects of obstructions, cloaking
devices could improve wireless communications, or acoustic cloaks could serve
as protective shields, preventing the penetration of vibrations, sound or
seismic waves.

“The ability of the cloak to hide the bump is compelling, and offers a path
towards the realization of forms of cloaking abilities approaching the
optical,” Liu said. “Though the designs of such matematerials are extremely
complex, especially when traditional approaches are used, we believe that we
now have a way to rapidly and efficiently produce such materials.”

With appropriately fine-tuned metamaterials, electromagnetic radiation at
frequencies ranging from visible light to electricity could be redirected at
will for virtually any application, Smith said. This approach could also lead
to the development of metamaterials that focus light to provide more powerful
lenses.

The newest cloak, which measures 20 inches by 4 inches and less than an inch
high, is actually made up of more than 10,000 individual pieces arranged in
parallel rows. Of those pieces, more than 6,000 are unique. Each piece is made
of the same fiberglass material used in circuit boards and etched with copper.

The algorithm determined the shape and placement of each piece. Without the
algorithm, properly designing and aligning the pieces would have been
extremely difficult, Smith said.

Others members of the research team were Duke’s Jack Mock, as well as Jessie
Y. Chin and Tie Jun Cui from Southeast University, Nanjing, China.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

