

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nivolet Breaks Computing Records at Pratt

December 4, 2015

The research group of Guglielmo Scovazzi, associate professor of civil and
environmental engineering, has just completed the deployment of the fastest
computer cluster at Pratt.

Supported by a Defense University Research Instrumentation Program (DURIP)
grant from the Army Research Office (ARO) and the Pratt School of Engineering,
the new $300,000 setup dubbed Nivolet will help Scovazzi drastically cut down
computing times for his research.

“Nivolet is the name of a mountain pass near Mount Grand Paradiso, in my
homeland, Piemonte, Italy. It literally means ‘among the clouds,’” explains
Scovazzi.

“What is impressive about this new cluster is that it is more powerful that
the NASA Ames supercomputer I was using towards the end of my doctorate work
in 2002. High performance computing has accomplished a massive jump in speed
in a relatively short amount of time, while drastically reducing energy
consumption and the trace on the environment.”

Scovazzi’s research focuses on finite element and advanced numerical methods
for computational fluid and solid mechanics. In other words, he seeks to
improve the accuracy of simulations of complex physical problems, such as
subsurface flows in porous media, interactions between turbulent flows and
structures in naval and aerospace applications, and geomechanics instabilities
of the earth’s crust. These types of problems require splitting the overall
computational effort among many powerful computer cores that must work in
unison, in a synchronized divide-and-conquer approach.

Nivolet is a cluster of 32 nodes, each of which is equipped with 24 Intel Xeon
cores, and connected through the industry-leading Mellanox SwitchX-2
Infiniband network to take full advantage of parallel computing for partial
differential equation problems. The cluster also includes 13 Nvidia Tesla GPUs
to further boost computing capabilities in dense linear algebra calculations.

“My research group is very excited about Nivolet because it will boost our
research and its impact on complex computational mechanics problems,” says
Scovazzi. “We’re grateful for the support from the ARO Applied Mathematics
Program managed by Dr. Joe Myers. Also, I would particularly like to thank Jim
Daigle, Jeremy Thornhill and Ron Stubbs of Pratt OIT who helped getting the
cluster up and running in record time. We feel blessed in my team to have
their help.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

