

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Professors to Lead Nationwide Effort to Diversify Participation in
Computing

August 4, 2021 | By Kathryn Kennedy

New $10 million grant looks to increase computing entry, retention and degree
completion rates of students from historically underrepresented groups

The National Science Foundation has awarded two Duke faculty members $10
million to develop tools and strategies in computing education that increase
the entry, retention and course or degree completion rates of high school and
undergraduate students from historically underrepresented groups.

Nicki Washington, professor of the practice in Computer Science, and Shaundra
Daily, professor of the practice in Electrical and Computer Engineering and
Computer Science, will receive funding over the next five years to create The
Alliance for Identity-Inclusive Computing Education (AIICE), the NSF announced
on August 3. They will be supported by other Duke faculty and staff including
Owen Astrachan, professor of the practice in Computer Science, and Vice
President and Chief Information Officer Tracy Futhey, as well as Jen Vizas and
Evan Levine, both leaders in the Office of Institutional Technology.

As the ubiquity of computing increases, Washington and Daily say it is
imperative that technology creators from a diverse range of identities occupy
development and leadership positions in order to avoid creating potentially
harmful technologies such as facial recognition and predictive policing. And
that will take investment from a much wider swath of computer science
educators at the high school and post-secondary level.

“We can’t keep talking about broadening participation and centering it on
students and faculty who are in the minority,” Washington said. “Prior efforts
emphasize that it’s simply about access, courses and training. But that’s not
the case when they’re in a class…dealing with problematic peers and faculty
who then go on to lead these companies and shape the technology industry. We
need to be creating better graduates.”

Their plan is to create systemic change by blending aspects of social science
with computer science to increase student and educator knowledge of identity
and related topics; support computer science educators and leaders nationwide
in fostering academic cultures that are more inclusive of non-dominant
identities; and increase policy-driven changes to computer science education
in K-12 schools and higher education that infuse identity-inclusive
strategies.

“There is a long history of people working to broaden participation in STEM,”
Daily said. “However, I think this work is unique in that it is a broad scale
effort to shape institutional policies, programs and practices that impact
non-majority identities in the field and prevent us from participating fully.”

The team estimates that successful implementation of AIICE will directly
impact 7,000 high school computer science teachers; 2,000 postsecondary
computer science faculty and staff; 5,000 teaching assistants; and 500 U.S.
computing departments. They will, in turn, impact a total of 525,000 high
school and 35,000 undergraduate computer science students nationwide.

“We have a really unique opportunity to transform the discipline,” Washington
said. “It’s great that NSF saw the value in this work, especially with what we
have seen over the last year – the #BlackInTheIvory hashtag and #ShutDownSTEM.
You saw so many Black students and educators sharing their experiences at
predominantly white institutions.

“This is an opportunity for us to make sure everyone understands not only
those (Black) experiences, but those of people who identify as Indigenous,
Latino, disabled, and other underrepresented groups as well,” she continued.
“The challenges (in computing education) span race, gender, sexuality, class,
socioeconomic status.”

The initiative builds on a dedication to diversifying computing education that
Washington and Daily – both Black women computer scientists – have led for
years. Following Washington’s arrival at Duke in 2020, they created the
Cultural Competence in Computing (3C) Fellows Program, which recently
completed recruiting for its second cohort. An assessment tool from 3C will
also be deployed as part of AIICE, Washington noted. But both professors
emphasize that partnerships beyond Duke will be crucial to accomplishing this
work.

“This grant extends this work to the K-12 level and takes a collective impact
approach to change the computing landscape,” Daily said. “Duke is the lead
university; however, University of Oregon, Mount Holyoke College, the Kapor
Center, Georgia Tech’s CONSTELLATIONS, the Computer Science Teachers
Association, the Center for Inclusive Computing, and Reboot Representation are
all partners who will collaboratively work to impact the field as a whole.”

“Knowing the people doing the work and the organizations that have been at the
forefront of this effort was crucial,” Washington noted. “We wanted to partner
with people who were vested and had evidence that they were vested.”

“It was like creating our own Avengers team in computing education,” she
added. “Who do we know that will get the work done? Who will roll up their
sleeves and be in this battle with us?”

The Duke team and four other awardees from this funding cycle join eight
existing NSF-funded alliances, and the NSF INCLUDES National Network of more
than 3,000 partners dedicated to broadening participation in STEM by creating
access and opportunities for all U.S. residents through public, private and
academic partnerships.

“We want to make sure we grow our network as much as possible,” Washington
said, “whether that is through adding collaborators at the partner level or
affiliates who are going to take the tools that we create into the classroom.”

_Kathryn Kennedy is executive director of communications for Duke’s Trinity
College of Arts & Sciences_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

