

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# An Old Space for New Ideas

April 13, 2018

The BRiDGE initiative for faculty, alumni and student startups opens in
downtown Durham

_Update: In May 2019, BRiDGE became the_ Breakthrough Research Initiative to
Develop Global Entrepreneurs. _Visit the BRiDGE webpage »_

From the outside, the imposing red-brick Chesterfield building in downtown
Durham hasn’t changed much since 1948, when it was built as a cigarette
factory for the Liggett & Myers tobacco company. But inside, the building is
gleaming with bright new surfaces and endless walls of glass, illuminated by
the 3,500-square-foot skylight that sits over an airy new central atrium.

This 21st-century version of The Chesterfield was designed expressly as a hub
for biomedical science in Durham, emphasizing shared, open spaces to encourage
collaborative work between the bright minds in the building. Re-opened in
January 2017, The Chesterfield has filled up fast with numerous startups and
labs affiliated with Duke University, which leased about 100,000 square feet
in the building for engineering and medical research.

Now, a new initiative will find its home in The Chesterfield: The
Bioengineering Research initiative to Develop Global Entrepreneurs, a.k.a.
BRiDGE.

The brainchild of Ashutosh Chilkoti, chair of Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering, the BRiDGE program was created to support new
bioengineering startups founded by students, faculty, and alumni in Duke BME.

BRiDGE will help Duke researchers and inventors tap into the entrepreneurial
talent available to them across Duke, helping them create and refine business
plans with training and guidance from Duke’s Innovation & Entrepreneurship
initiative and Pratt’s Mattson Family Director of Engineering Entrepreneurial
Ventures.

Companies selected to participate in the initiative will move into a
2,000-square-foot space on the fourth floor of The Chesterfield. Modeled on
traditional startup incubators, the open space includes a large shared lab
area, and rooms with shared equipment; companies lease lab benches and
cubicles and have shared access to conference rooms and private offices for
calls and small meetings. Mirroring the building that houses it, the renovated
space is a medley of the old and the new, with vintage tiles from the
building’s tobacco days decorating walls lined with brand-new biomedical lab
equipment.

“To me it was clear that there needed to be a physical space that co-located
companies in close proximity so they could work with each other to provide
moral support and foster a true entrepreneurial community,” says Chilkoti,
himself a serial entrepreneur. “BRiDGE provides not only a physical
infrastructure but a hub of intellectual expertise for these young startups.”

Chilkoti began to pursue this idea shortly after becoming chair of the
department in 2013, and in 2017, he partnered with Maria Iglesias de Ussel, a
project leader at Duke’s Clinical and Translational Science Institute, to
assess the needs of the project. With a faculty and student body full of
innovative ideas, he wanted to expand the resources available to would-be
entrepreneurs and make it easier for them to succeed.

“At the time, there was nothing like this at Duke,” says Iglesias de Ussel,
now the director of operations at BRiDGE. “BRIDGE is more than an incubator,
as it has an educational component and we provide entrepreneurial mentorship
and expertise.” The initiative gained steam after Alan L. Kaganov (BSME ’60)
generously donated funding towards the effort, which also received support
from both BME and the Pratt School of Engineering. In November of 2017, seven
bioengineering startups were selected to move into the renovated space:Qatch
Technologies, founded by postdoctoral fellow Zehra Parlak; Isolere Bio,
founded by Chilkoti and recent BME PhD graduate Kelli Luginbuhl; Restor3D and
Deep Blue Medical Advances, founded by mechanical engineering and materials
science chair and secondary BME faculty member Ken Gall; Gateway Bio, founded
by Chilkoti and Angus Hucknall, a senior research scientist in BME; and DMC
and AccuBeing, founded by BME faculty members Michael Lynch and Xiling Shen,
respectively.

Although BRiDGE is based in Duke BME, this initiative also reflects a growing
focus on entrepreneurial work within the Pratt School of Engineering, as
evidenced by a number of new collaborative programs created to jump-start
entrepreneurship. Among them is Duke MEDx, a program created in 2015 with
support from the Provost’s Office, School of Medicine and Duke Engineering to
facilitate collaborative research and education between faculty and students
in medicine and engineering.

“Our mission with MEDx is to bring together faculty at the early stages of
research to create these unique collaborations,” says Gall, the associate
director of MEDx. “It’s a tool that works especially well as a starting point
for BME entrepreneurs at Duke University, because they get a good sense of how
their ideas can be implemented into clinical use.”

### From Duke BME Magazine

Explore the Spring 2018 issue

Faculty, graduate students and research staff in BME can also participate in
the Duke-Coulter Translational Research Partnership. Established in 2006, the
program supports collaborative translational research that addresses unmet
clinical needs and leads to improvements in healthcare and to commercial
products. So far, the partnership has awarded more than $8 million in funding
to more than 39 projects, and these have subsequently gone on to attract more
than $489 million in follow-on funding from grants or angel investments.

This decade-spanning partnership between Duke’s medical and engineering
schools has resulted in numerous innovations, patents, and startups, and
Chilkoti hopes to build on this success through BRiDGE.

“We thought it would make sense to have a pipeline that could begin with the
Coulter Translational Partnership to develop nascent
bioengineeringtechnologies that then develop into a startup company that is
located in the physical space provided by BRiDGE. BRiDGE’s mission is to help
these startups travel safely across the valley of death and into functional
companies,” says Chilkoti. "With this new space, researchers will have the
resources to carry out the early development work that is essential to attract
funding from angel networks, venture capitalists, and the federal government
through SBIRs and STTRs.”

One of the most recent additions to Duke’s entrepreneurial efforts is Bill
Walker, a Duke Engineering alumnus and entrepreneur who joined the school in
2016 as the school’s first Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurial
Ventures. Working closely with the Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Initiative and the Bass Connections Program, Walker helps Duke Engineering
faculty and students assess business opportunities for commercializing their
ideas and develop new companies.

With the opening of BRiDGE, Walker’s role as a mentor to engineering
entrepreneurs will be expanding, as he will provide guidance to the
bioengineering companies.

"My role is to be the go-to person in that space and to help them find deeper
resources and provide strategy,” says Walker. “My job isn’t to tell them what
to do, but to share my experiences and give them a clear way to move forward.”

Already, there are plans to expand the program to provide more educational
opportunities for engineering master’s and PhD students interested in
entrepreneurship. “Bill and I have launched a summer internship program in
BRiDGE for Duke students,” says Chilkoti. “Ultimately we want these summer
interns to work with these companies and have a hands-on learning experience
in entrepreneurship that is still relevant to their bioengineering interests.”

For Chilkoti, The Chesterfield was a prime location for BRiDGE, placing the
startups in the center of a busy and growing downtown area. In the last five
years alone, more than 3,500 Duke employees have moved into the booming
entrepreneurial hubs in downtown Durham, including the American Tobacco
Campus, the American Underground, the Carmichael building and the Bullpen, the
focal point of Duke University’s innovation and entrepreneurship efforts.
Already, Duke faculty and staff work in more than 1.3 million square feet of
space in downtown Durham, and there are plans to take on more than 200,000
square feet of space in new buildings already under construction by 2018.

The growth of downtown Durham can be seen in real time from BRiDGE, where
large windows frame multiple cranes at work placing together the skeletons of
towering glass skyscrapers and renovating other historic buildings nearby. For
researchers who will move into the space, its location at the center of a
growing city and the influx of entrepreneurs is one of the many benefits of
The Chesterfield.

“The space is a brilliant concept and creates a sense

of community,” says Gall. “When you interact with people who work toward
similar problems and challenges, that gives you a sense of confidence in your
work. I believe BRiDGE in combination with Duke Angel Network will be a major
factor in the success of Duke’s bio-focused startups.”

New opportunities in a new space are just what Chilkoti had in mind. “BRiDGE
was created to lower the activation barrier for people who want to launch
innovative biomedical companies,” he says. “We want to empower the local Duke
BME community to pursue new and exciting ideas.”

BRiDGE COMPANIES

**Mike Lynch—DMC:** Based on a novel process that will allow researchers to
scale up and streamline the production of molecules used in flavors,
fragrances, agricultural chemicals and other commercial products.

**Kelli Luginbuhl and Ashutosh Chilkoti—Isolere Bio:** Currently developing
IsoTag™, a technology that merges affinity capture with liquid-liquid phase
separation to provide an innovative alternative to the current “gold”
standard, protein A chromatography to purify antibodies.

**Zehra Parlak—Qatch Technologies:** Based on a new technology that can be
used to measure blood coagulation.

**Ken Gall—Restor3D and Deep Blue Medical Advances:** Restor3D will 3D print
materials for biomedical implants, allowing researchers to lower the cost and
increase the complexity for patient-centered designs. Deep Blue Medical
Advances is based on a new hernia mesh that integrates directly into the
tissue, eliminating the need for sutures.

**Angus Hucknall and Ashutosh Chilkoti—Gateway Bio:** Developing a non-
immunogenic alternative to PEGylation that eliminates PEG antigenicity and
improves drug delivery profiles relative to traditional PEGylation strategies.

**Xiling Shen —AccuBeing:** Developing technology to increase the precision of
personalized cancer therapies. AccuBeing’s patient-derived screening platform
provides a way to identify drugs that can overcome drug resistance after
standard chemotherapy fails. The platform will also enable a patient drug
response database for cancer drug discovery and development.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

