

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Olivier Delaire: Designing Thermoelectric Materials One Atom at a Time

October 22, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

New engineering faculty member will build bridges between Duke and Oak Ridge
National Laboratory

Olivier Delaire, a scientist probing the atomic phenomena underlying the
physical characteristics of materials, will join Duke University’s faculty in
January 2016. After seven years at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), the
Tennessee-based research campus of the U.S. Department of Energy, Delaire will
move his research enterprise to the Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science Department in Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering.

Well, sort of.

Delaire will be the first Pratt faculty member to split time between Duke and
ORNL. He joins three other joint faculty appointments at Duke—two in
environmental sciences and one in computational sciences—in an effort to build
collaborations between the two institutions just a five-hour drive apart.

“Oak Ridge National Laboratory recognizes that strategic partnership with top
universities such as Duke is crucial to fulfilling the nation’s research
mission and training the scientific work force of the future,” said Ian
Anderson, ORNL director of Graduate Education and University Partnerships. “We
expect these collaborations to lead to more joint faculty appointments like
Olivier and an opportunity for Duke graduate students to engage in leading
edge research at ORNL.”

While Delaire will benefit from the students and research culture on Duke’s
campus and throughout the Research Triangle, Duke will benefit from Delaire’s
knowledge and connections with ORNL’s unique experimental capabilities.

“I’m a big user of the facilities at Oak Ridge and will continue to be, so it
makes sense for me to share my time,” said Delaire. “For people at Duke, it’s
a very good opportunity to leverage the investments that have been made at Oak
Ridge in terms of the scientific facilities. And it’s also a win-win for Oak
Ridge, because they need more of the great students from Duke to help move
their research forward.”

Delaire’s research involves bombarding materials with beams of neutrons to
probe their atomic structures. By analyzing how neutrons interact with a
material on an atomic scale, researchers can learn about its atomic
structures, bonds, movements and vibrations, and how they give rise to
desirable properties.

One such class of materials that Delaire has been heavily involved with is
thermoelectric materials. When there is a large temperature difference between
one side of these materials and the other, it produces electricity that can be
used in a variety of applications. It’s a phenomenon that several companies in
the Research Triangle Park are trying to integrate into new products, which is
one of the reasons Delaire is excited about his new position in Durham.

For example, a device could be made that capitalizes on the temperature
difference between a car’s exhaust pipe and the surrounding air that could
power the car’s electronics. And NASA has been using the technology for
decades—thermoelectric systems are currently powering the Curiosity Mars Rover
and the Voyager Probe that is now pushing past the outer limits of our solar
system.

“The concept of thermal conductivity is something that we’re all well aware
of; you know you don’t make the handle of your pan out of copper or else
you’ll burn yourself,” said Delaire. “We know that some materials have high
thermal conductivities and others much lower, and we can measure it in the lab
fairly easily. And yet we don’t understand very well at all why a certain
arrangement of atoms inside a material leads to a low or high thermal
conductivity.”

Adding to Delaire’s experimental efforts, his group also uses supercomputers
to simulate the atomic structures and chemical bonds of materials. By
continually building better models of materials and testing their accuracy
against experimental data, Delaire tries to predict the properties of
materials yet to be discovered.

“My group will really focus on understanding how these fundamental processes
work,” said Delaire. “We want to push our knowledge and boil it down to
recipes that can then be folded into the design of new materials.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

