

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Online International Collaboration Demonstrates Reliability of Quantum
Simulations for Materials Design

March 29, 2016

Scientists from Duke University teamed up with colleagues from over 30
universities and institutes to investigate to what extent quantum simulations
of material properties agree when they are performed by different researchers
and with different software. Thanks to an online collaboration, they
successfully demonstrated that the most recent generations of codes agree
well, in contrast to earlier generations. Their study appears in this week's
edition of Science.

_Reproducibility does not come easily_

It's a corner stone of science: independent yet identical experiments should
produce identical results. Only in this way can science identify ‘laws’, which
lead to new insight and new technologies. However, several recent studies have
pointed out that such reproducibility does not always come spontaneously. In
scientific areas as diverse as psychology research and genetic research, cases
were identified where repeating previous experiments led to very different
results. Even predictions by computer codes require caution, since the way in
which theoretical models are implemented may affect simulation results. This
is a reason for concern in any field of research that critically depends on
computer simulations. For the study and design of materials, for instance,
there are several independent software packages available based on quantum
physics. They are moreover being used increasingly often in automated
procedures with limited human supervision. It is therefore essential to know
to what extent predicted materials properties depend on the code that has been
used.

_Online collaboration brings experts together_

Despite the need for reliable property predictions of materials, the
reproducibility of quantum simulations had not been investigated
systematically before. This is mainly because there is no single person
sufficiently skilled in all existing codes. Scientists from Duke University
therefore joined forces with more than 60 colleagues, bringing together the
know-how of over 30 prominent institutions. The researchers investigated 40
different methods to describe the influence of pressure in 71 different
crystals. Due to the highly international composition of the team, discussions
and collaboration were mainly conducted via online tools – similarly to the
way people collaborate to write Wikipedia. The team can now demonstrate that,
although a few of the older methods clearly yield deviating results,
predictions by recent codes are entirely equivalent. They moreover define a
quality criterion that allows the verification of future software developments
against their extensive database. New test data are continuously added to a
publicly available website. The researchers involved hope that their work will
contribute to higher standards for materials property simulations, and that it
will facilitate the development of improved simulation codes and methods.

Led by Kurt Lejaeghere and Stefaan Cottenier of the Center for Molecular
Modeling at Ghent University in Belgium, the collaboration investigated 40
different methods to describe the so-called equation of state in 71 different
crystals.

“If you want to predict a material’s properties, you need to know what its
structure is at given conditions. And to predicts its structure, you need its
equation of state,” said Volker Blum, associate professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science and of chemistry at Duke, whose code called
FHI-aims proved to be one of the most accurate. However, there is more work to
be done.

“The equation of state goes a long way to make sure the foundation is sound,
but many quantities require additional numerical approximations,” said Blum.
“These would be good to test in the future in a similarly broad way. The
present study is, in a sense, a trailblazer for such work.”

###

"Reproducibility in density-functional theory calculations of solids." Kurt
Lejaeghere et. al. _Science_ **351** (2016), DOI: 10.1126/science.aad3000

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

