

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Online Analytics Course Tackles a Fast-Moving Field

June 7, 2016 | By Eric Ferreri

A suite of Duke-led Coursera classes is popular among professional workers

_Originally published onDuke Today_

With every new student who enrolls in his online data analytics course, Daniel
Egger senses the corporate world scrambling to redefine itself.

Egger is an executive-in-residence in Duke's Master's of Engineering
Management program, where he is co-teaching a new series of online courses
aimed at helping students keep up with the fast-changing world of data
analytics.

And if the staggering number of people enrolling in his courses is any
indication, the corporate world is taking heed of a shifting, numbers-driven
landscape and struggling to keep up.

"There's a huge tech and corporate shift going on; the skills you need in
business are changing a lot," says Egger, who came to Duke in 2009 following a
long career as a software entrepreneur and venture capitalist. "It's much more
necessary to be able to make sense of massive amounts of raw digital
information and make decisions quickly. Companies that don't do this are going
out of business."

The suite of courses that Egger co-developed with Jana Schaich-Borg, a
neuroscientist at Duke, is offered through Coursera, the digital education
platform that has helped champion the MOOC – or Massive Open Online Course.

Duke partnered with Coursera in 2012 and has since developed dozens of courses
across the spectrum of academic topics, free and available to anyone with an
Internet connection. While the analytics courses are free, there's a pay
version as well that has proven popular. For $80 each – or $400 for the whole
package – students receive extra assignments and a certificate upon
completion.

These courses, unveiled last fall, suggest that people – many mid-career
professionals in search of additional training – are willing to pay for a new
certification from a well-regarded university. More than 5,000 people bought
the most popular of the five-course series, which takes roughly seven weeks to
complete. Overall, more than 20,000 courses have been purchased already, many
from people abroad.

The demand speaks to the changing needs of companies and employees alike, says
Schaich-Borg, who teaches two of the four courses.

"It's much easier to collect and store data than it is to interpret it," she
says. "To create value out of data, a company needs a team that can pose
answerable questions with the data it has or with the data it can get. Posing
these "right" questions requires a suite of skills that are rarely taught
together in any one discipline. As a consequence, companies struggle to find
employees who can meet all their needs, and students struggle to gain access
to the learning experiences that prepare them for what companies want them to
do."

Since 2014, all Duke courses offered through Coursera have included a paid
certificate version. The Excel to MySQL Specialization courses have by far
brought in the most paying customers, while a series of Java programming
courses has also proven profitable, says Lynne O’Brien, Duke’s associate vice
provost for digital and online education initiatives.

These courses appeal to students who fall between the traditional
undergraduate and those seeking a terminal degree.

“There’s this huge untapped market of people who want these skills and are
willing to pay something for it,” O’Brien says. “Most people in these classes
have degrees and years of work experience.”

One such student is Paul Leigh, 55, an IT manager with Dupont Pioneer in South
Africa. Leigh’s company develops and markets corn, sunflower, soy bean and
other seeds to African farmers. It is an ancient industry that, like many, is
fast using data analytics for research and development, analysis of markets
and communications with customers.

So Leigh enrolled in Duke’s five-course data analytics specialization, an
investment he says was worth it because he’s motivated to move his career
forward, understand new technologies and make himself as marketable as
possible.

“We all need to be committed to life-long learning and that’s especially
important in high-tech businesses where new technologies present opportunities
or threats, depending on how you respond to them,” he writes in an email.
“This course should make me more valuable within the organization and position
me to contribute to the Big Data world that the company is entering.”

While many universities offer master’s degrees in data analytics, Duke is
among a very few that offers a suite of online courses.. More than 100,000
people have tried at least one of the courses for free. Nearly 70 percent work
full-time and nearly half of the students already have advanced degrees,
according to demographic information gathered by Coursera.

John Driscoll, 63, is a semi-retired petroleum executive who has worked for
more than three decades in Singapore. Data science is changing how his
industry operates, Driscoll says, which is why he has turned to online courses
to keep up. He took a free version of one of the analytics courses.

“These innovations are changing the way business is conducted,” he writes in
an email. “I can see it taking hold in pricing, supply chain management,
analysis, strategy and risk management.”

Driscoll works mostly as a consultant these days, occasionally lecturing at
universities in Singapore where the students know more about analytics than he
does, he says.

The gathering and crunching of data has become critical in industry, Egger
says, pointing to the success of Amazon and the failure of so many competitors
to give the online shopping portal a real challenge. But data analytics casts
a far broader net than just determining people’s shopping habits.

“There’s a need in every industry,” Egger says. “It doesn’t matter if you’re
in aerospace or a non-profit advising people on energy use.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

