

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Partnership to Secure and Protect the Emerging Internet of Things

August 31, 2015

Duke University partners with the National Science Foundation, Intel
Corporation and universities across the nation to improve the security and
privacy of computing systems that interact with the physical world

The digital world once existed largely in non-material form. But with the rise
of connected homes, smart grids and autonomous vehicles, the cyber and the
physical are merging in new and exciting ways. These hybrid forms are often
called ‘cyber-physical systems’ (CPS), and are giving rise to a new ‘Internet
of Things’ (IOT).

Such systems have unique characteristics and vulnerabilities that must be
studied and addressed to make sure they are reliable and secure, and that they
maintain individuals’ privacy.

The National Science Foundation (NSF), in partnership with Intel Corporation,
one of the world’s leading technology companies, today announced two new
grants totaling $6 million to research teams that will study solutions to
address the security and privacy of cyber-physical systems. A key emphasis of
these grants is to refine an understanding of the broader socioeconomic
factors that influence CPS security and privacy.

One of the grants, led by Insup Lee at the University of Pennsylvania, will
include researchers from the University of Michigan and Duke University. The
project will explore the unique characteristics of cyber-physical systems,
such as the physical dynamics, to provide approaches that mix prevention,
detection and recovery, while assuring certain levels of guarantees for
safety-critical automotive and medical systems.

“With this award, we will develop robust, new technologies and approaches that
work together to lead to safer, more secure and privacy-preserving cyber-
physical systems by developing methods to tolerate attacks on physical
environment and cyberspace in addition to preventing them,” said Insup Lee,
who leads the team from the University of Pennsylvania.

Joining Lee’s team from Duke is Miroslav Pajic, assistant professor of
electrical and computer engineering. Pajic’s role in the project will be to
design security-aware embedded control systems and cyber-physical systems.

The goal is to create interactive “smart” systems that can maintain control
and performance over a long period of time, even when some aspects of the
system have been compromised. Figuring out how to balance the interplay
between security and privacy requirements and the need to continuously
interact with and obtain information from the physical environment is also a
key concern.

“As our lives depend more and more on these systems, specifically in the
automotive, medical and Internet-of-Things domains, the results obtained in
this project will have a direct and immediate impact on society at large,”
said Pajic.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

