

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Paul Fearis: Informing Innovation at Duke BME

February 5, 2019

With a novel approach to medical device design, Duke BME’s newest faculty
member seeks to prepare students for success in the medical device industry

Paul Fearis joined Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering as a
senior lecturing fellow in January 2019. With nearly 30 years of leadership as
a medical device design consultant, Fearis will play a pivotal role in Duke
BME’s expanded design curriculum, where he’ll mentor students interested in
careers in industry and entrepreneurship.

Originally trained in industrial design engineering at the Royal College of
Art and in mechanical design at Cranfield Institute of Technology in the
United Kingdom, Fearis invented and helped develop and commercialize a broad
range of medical devices for both multinational corporations and startups in
the United States and around the world.

Prior to his arrival at Duke, Fearis was a Lecturer in Innovation in the
biomedical engineering department at Johns Hopkins University, where he worked
with faculty in the Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design. In his
new role, Fearis will use his human-centered design perspective to help train
students to better identify and develop solutions to unmet needs in across the
continuum of health care.

“I specialize in an approach called ‘Insight Informed Innovation,’” says
Fearis. “Medical device development too often begins with the incremental
specification of a solution, then after some years of development you end up
with a product that meets that specification. In my opinion, the design
process shouldn’t start with someone describing a solution, it should start
all the way back in the operating room, at the nurses’ station or in the
clinic by building a deep and insightful understanding of how people work, the
outcome they need to achieve and the resulting needs that a solution would
have to meet in order to be successful in their hands and in the market. Those
needs should then be met by varied, creative and hopefully innovative
solutions.”

Through Insight Informed Innovation, Fearis encourages his students to carry
out ethnographic and observational contextual research around the stakeholders
they are trying to serve. If they are working with a physician who is looking
for a better way to remove a gallbladder, for example, he wants his students
to act as a fly on the wall and watch how different people go about that job
day-by-day. By insightfully observing these stakeholders in their natural
environment, Fearis says, students will start to identify discontinuities that
impede their work and which, if eliminated, could result in better patient
outcomes or improvements in time, cost of other important parameters.

“By careful analysis you’ll start to notice things and think, ‘That took
longer than I thought it would,’ ‘There’s a lot of risk, time or cost
associated with doing x, y and z’ or ‘They had to swap hands three times just
to comfortably use this tool,’” says Fearis. “All of these observations start
to bubble up, and these then become opportunities to innovate new and better
solutions.

“Once you figure out a solution you can go back and test it in concept form
with the people that gave you the insight in the first place to figure out
what ‘good’ looks like to them. Then you can engineer that solution knowing
you are meeting a real need in a way that really works for the people who will
need it,” he says.

Fearis will use this tried-and-tested approach as a lecturer for students in
the Master of Engineering program, which is specifically designed for students
interested in professional careers in industry. Fearis will also draw on his
business and entrepreneurial experience to collaborate with Bill Walker, the
Pratt School of Engineering's Mattson Family Director of Engineering
Entrepreneurial Ventures, on a new “Founder’s Track” for master’s students
interested in entrepreneurship.

In addition, Fearis will join Eric Richardson in leading the new Duke Design
Health Fellows Program, a competitive nine-month fellowship program which
brings together teams of students from BME, medicine and business to identify
and design marketable solutions to unmet clinical needs.

Fearis’s new role at Duke is part of an increased push to focus on innovative
design within the undergraduate and graduate curriculum. New initiatives over
the past three years include a first-year, project-based engineering design
course led by Ann Saterbak; a three-semester Design Fellows program that
includes a required summer internship; and an immersive two-semester medical
device design course, led by Mark Palmeri and Richardson, that promotes
collaboration with the neighboring Duke University Medical Center.

“Duke has always been very, very good at creating researchers and academics,
but more than 50 percent of Duke BME students go into industry, and we want to
make sure that their needs are met,” says Fearis. “I come from that world, and
I’m happy to come to Duke and bring a very hands-on, industry and vocational
focus. I’m not coming in as a PhD researcher, I’m coming in to help get that
next student the job they want in industry, where they will change the future
of healthcare; and have them end up running the show when they get there!”

##### Also joining the Duke BME faculty in January 2019 are:

**Eric Richardson**

Creating New Opportunities Through Engineering Design

_Richardson discusses projects and perspectives he’ll bring to the student
design experience_

**Samira Musah**

Engineering Stem Cell Fate for Applications in Kidney Disease

_Musah is guiding stem cells to model, and potentially develop new treatment
strategies for, the widespread disease_

**Jessilyn Dunn**

Gaining Insights from Biomedical Big Data

_Dunn explores how to use biomedical data sets to model and guide personalized
therapies_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

