

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mathematics-Bioscience Partnership to Explore Cellular Transport

May 30, 2018

Duke MEMS’s Christine Payne brings bioscience expertise to new $10 million
center seeking to better understand the relationship between mathematics and
biology

Christine Payne, associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke University, is part of the newly announced NSF-Simons
Southeast Center for Mathematics and Biology (SCMB). Headquartered at the
Georgia Institute of Technology, the center pairs mathematicians and
bioscientists to address open questions in biology using new mathematics.

The SCMB comprises 14 researchers, including collaborators throughout the
Southeastern United States. Tulane University, University of Florida,
University of South Florida, Clemson University and Oak Ridge National
Laboratory are each contributing a mathematician.

Payne’s portion of the center is to be paired with Scott McKinley, associate
professor of mathematics at Tulane University. The duo’s goal will be to
explore the biophysics of cellular transport, specifically endocytosis of
nutrients, viruses, toxins and nanoparticles. While Payne’s laboratory will
use live cell imaging and single-particle tracking to follow the movement of
bioparticles along the cytoskeleton, McKinley’s group will use a Bayesian
approach to relate the observed cellular transport to underlying mathematical
models.

“Our experiments can’t track particles indefinitely,” said Payne. “Mathematics
can help us answer the question of just how much can we infer based on the
physical limits of experiments.”

> “Our experiments can’t track particles indefinitely. Mathematics can help us
> answer the question of just how much can we infer based on the physical
> limits of experiments.”

Payne says that the strength of the new center comes in large part from the
ability of Principal Investigator Christine Heitsch, professor in Georgia
Tech's School of Mathematics, to create useful teams of mathematicians and
bioscientists.

“The mathematicians have tools and interests that can help the bioscientists,
though they may never have known it otherwise,” said Payne. “And it’s a two-
way collaboration because the data provided by the bioscientists could lead to
new mathematics as well.”

The SCMB is one of four centers funded with a total of $40 million from the
National Science Foundation and the Simons Foundation. The center will support
one Duke graduate student for five years as they work on a collaborative
project with the McKinley group, including multiple visits and workshops with
the other math-bioscience partners.

“Math can potentially change the way we do our experiments,” said Hang Lu, a
professor in Georgia Tech’s School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
who co-leads of the center. “Biological systems can look overwhelmingly
complex, and that just means we haven’t found the right way of looking at them
yet.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

