

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Petroski Pens Book on Forces at Play in Everyday Life

September 27, 2022

"Force: What it Means to Push and Pull, Slip and Grip, Start and Stop" is
Petroski’s 20th book about science and engineering written for a general
audience

_Henry Petroski, the Aleksander S. Vesic Distinguished Professor Emeritus at
Duke, is renowned for conveying the wonder of physics and engineering to
readers from all walks of life. His new book Force: What it Means to Push and
Pull, Slip and Grip, Start and Stop, published on September 20 by Yale,
explores the amazing forces at play as humans interact with the world every
day._

_With vividness and insight, Petroski reveals the forces that underlie our
experiences when we use a pencil, visit the supermarket, wear a mask, hug each
other, lie on a bed of nails, cross a bridge, and so much more. What forces
are at work when a cat hangs from a door handle to open a door? How much
weight can a single human hair bear? How about a whole head of hairs? Why
might troops marching in lockstep across a bridge endanger it? How many people
does it take to move an Egyptian obelisk?_

_Written for anyone with a curious mind, the book also considers the
significance of force in shaping societies and cultures. The story of human
ingenuity and invention across millennia is a story of harnessing and putting
to use in new ways the physical forces that define our world. From cooking to
building to seafaring to farming to traveling to planting—beneath every aspect
of human culture everywhere is the management and exploitation of force._

_Petroski responded to our questions about how his new book came to be and
what he learned while writing it._

What inspired you to focus on the concept of force in our daily lives?

Forces are ubiquitous but go mostly unnoticed, even though we rely upon them
in carrying out our everyday activities. This “invisible out in the open”
quality of force is exactly the kind of topic that I love to explore. Every
time we touch someone or something, force is involved and the sensation tells
us something about the subject of our interaction. Think of shaking hands.
Some handshakes are firm, others flaccid. Our first impression of a person
often depends on how much force is transmitted through the grip that we
experience in shaking hands. And think of how we handle inanimate things. We
grasp some things with much greater force (more firmly) than we do other
things. This is something we must learn, for a child does not know innately to
press much less hard in picking up an egg than a rock. We have to learn what
forces are appropriate for what circumstances.

There are so many forces at work in our daily lives; how did you choose
specific examples on which to focus?

There does seem to be an almost unimaginably large variety of ways in which
force manifests itself, but virtually all of them can be understood in terms
of two basic forces: push and pull. By explaining how all forces reduce to
combinations of push and pull, I provide the reader with insight into how less
simple forces can be applied and reacted to most effectively. This kind of
knowledge helps us more safely walk on icy sidewalks, more easily open
stubborn jars of jelly, better play games involving bats and balls, and even
have a better chance of winning a bet over which way a wheel will turn in
response to a push or pull—to mention just a few of the activities I write
about in FORCE.

Did the experience of writing this book differ from your previous books in any
significant way?

Yes and no. Yes, in the sense that I could literally feel what I was writing
about. For example, when I was describing the forces involved in putting on a
pair of slippers in the morning, I needed to do little more than put on my
slippers to check my memory of how I feel the forces interacting between my
feet, the slippers and the floor. At the same time, no, writing FORCE did not
differ from writing many of my other books, in that I had to do research to
put the concept of force in some historical perspective and to be sure I did
not rely solely on my own idiosyncrasies in describing and discussing what I
claim to be universal experiences that we all have but do not always think
about.

Which chapter did you particularly enjoy writing?

I should not play favorites with my book chapters any more than I do with my
children. However, I have to admit that I did have fun writing about levers
and inclined planes. Both of these simple machines have been known and used
since ancient times, but we sometimes complicate our handling of them by not
recognizing them as the ingenious mechanical devices that they are. From
morning to night, we encounter levers in the form of: eating utensils,
toothbrushes, gas pedals, steering wheels, brake pedals, pencils and pens,
light switches, and so many of the other things we touch throughout the day.
It is levers that enable us to convert one kind of force into another. My
chapter on inclined planes enabled me to engage in my habit of punning. An
inclined plane can be a ramp up which we are pushing a wheelchair, as well as
a jumbo jet taking off from a runway and climbing at a steep angle. The forces
involved in each situation are essentially the same—with gravity and inertia
doing most of the pushing and pulling—and, by pointing this out, I hope to
emphasize how very dissimilar activities can be the result of very similar
forces.

Is there any specific force that you think has been more powerful in shaping
the world in which we live than others?

If we are talking about shaping the world of made things, such as manufactured
goods, I would have to return to the forces of push and pull. The Industrial
Revolution depended to a large extent on the ability to pound (push) iron and
steel into shapes that could be used for railroads and locomotives, and also
to extrude (pull) them into a wire that could be used to support bridges and
carry electricity. Today, pushes and pulls are the essential physical forces
involved in making so many of the plastic products that replace parts that
were once made of more easily recyclable materials such as glass and steel.
And now it is pushes and pulls that have to be involved in the recycling of
plastics. If we are talking about metaphorical force, then again we have to
think of pulls and pushes. They are the carrots and sticks that drive our
world.

During your research what were you particularly surprised to find?

Among the most surprising things I found out was that many people have less of
an understanding of physical force than they do of metaphorical force. For
example, although everyone seems to understand the possibility of being
persuasively “forced” to do something against their better judgment, they do
not necessarily comprehend how a particular physical force and a certain
motion are related. Even college students who took a physics course in high
school cannot be relied upon to predict which way a particular object will
move when a certain kind of force is applied to it. In fact, even some college
graduates do not have a sophisticated sense of force, as I confirmed through
my research. I would like to think that after reading my book, people from all
walks of life will have a better grasp of how force and motion are related.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

