

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# PhDs Ready-Made for the Business World

June 10, 2014

The PhD Plus Program is designed to assist graduate students in making
effective career decisions in industry, consulting, government or academia.

Recently Dean Katsouleas and CEE PhD candidate Sarah Diringer wrote about the
value of the program for Forbes.

Read the original version at Forbes, or see the text below.

* * *

## PhDs Ready-Made For The Business World

By Tom Katsouleas and Sarah Diringer

If you’re hiring in a science, technology or engineering industry, you’ve
probably seen an increasing number of candidates with PhDs cross your desk.
That’s not a fluke. In engineering, most PhDs now go into industry jobs, not
academia like they used to.

Depending on the position you’re hiring for, you’re probably looking for
someone with five to seven years of professional experience, not a nerdy PhD
student who has learned too much about too little.

But as we can tell you—from the perspectives of both a dean and a current PhD
student—working toward a PhD is great preparation to work in any results-
driven organization. PhD students often have to satisfy expectations from
multiple bosses, manage several projects simultaneously and supervise interns
and undergraduates. They are constantly improving their analytical skills,
working on group collaborations and communicating their work.

It’s just that when it comes to getting hired in industry, PhD students have a
marketing problem.

That’s why an increasing number of universities, from Dartmouth to Purdue to
University of California-Davis, are launching initiatives to make their
engineering PhDs more prepared for the business world–and more attractive to
industry employers.

Here at Duke, a motivated group of graduate students is working with
administrators to change the perception of PhD students as ivory-tower
residents with little practical experience. Together, we created the Duke PhD
Plus Program to introduce engineering students to careers outside of academia
and to prepare them for careers after graduation—through an internship
requirement, professional development workshops and skill-enhancing
coursework.

What makes PhD Plus unique among professional development programs is that it
is run by PhD students—which helps students tailor the components to truly
match their goals (and gives them even more practical experience to boot). Our
students solicit and host speakers and seminars to expose themselves to career
options and paths as a PhD graduate, on topics like management consulting from
experts in top consulting firms to standing out in the biotech research world
and advice for start-ups from CEOs.

Probably the most critical part of the program, though, is the
internship—which isn’t a typical part of the usual PhD experience. With
support from faculty mentors, students take time away from the lab to work at
an organization and get first-hand experience on whether that organization is
right for them. Internship opportunities include anything from work at a
corporation or research organization to the Duke Summer Innovation Program
that supports students as they work on their own startups.

One Duke PhD student, Andrew Stershic, in his third year of study in civil and
environmental engineering, found that his internship allowed him to reveal his
potential in ways he hadn’t had a chance to explore before. “Internships at
the undergraduate level showcase career paths for bachelor’s degree holders,”
he said. “This was my first chance to experience what I can do with a PhD.”
His supervisor at Oak Ridge National Lab now serves on his dissertation
committee and helps to guide the application of his doctoral work.

Following the internship, students reflect on their experience and enroll in a
course outside their own department that will enhance their career
objectives—whether it’s finance or materials science, geographic information
systems or patent law. (Sarah: As one example, I recently completed a course
in geospatial information systems (GIS) that immediately increased my
technical skills and job prospects.)

Judy Winglee, another PhD student and the PhD Plus leadership chair, completed
coursework on the fundamentals of entrepreneurship and initiated her own
startup business. For her, PhD Plus has prepared her to leap ahead when she
graduates. “Without the program, we fumble through these skills on our first
job. Why not graduate with these skills down?” she said.

Next time you’re looking at a stack of candidates and see a PhD listed, dig
deeper to see which are ready to join the business world. Thanks to programs
like PhD Plus, some are ready to take their recent discoveries and research
insights and turn them into successful products and services for the good of
society and business.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

