

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Portraits of Particulate Matter

December 23, 2019

Images taken at Duke’s Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility may shed
light for improved solar panel efficiency

On solar farms in particularly dusty places in the world, like the Arabian
Peninsula and parts of India and China, air pollution costs the solar energy
industry tens of billions of dollars annually. As particles settle out of the
air onto the surfaces of solar panels, they constrain the panels’ potential.
Workers with soapy brushes can clean the grime from the panels, much as you
might clean your windshield at a car wash. But in many of these areas, water
is scarce and cleaning is expensive, so there’s a tradeoff—spend precious
resources and labor, or sacrifice solar energy output.

> On solar farms in particularly dusty places in the world, like the Arabian
> Peninsula and parts of India and China, air pollution costs the solar energy
> industry tens of billions of dollars annually.

Environmental engineers in professor Mike Bergin’s lab are trying to figure
out how solar farms can best navigate that tradeoff, by developing a schedule
by which solar farmers could clean most efficiently. Gaining a better
understanding of what exactly is depositing on solar panels, how that affects
energy production and how those effects vary by region throughout the year
could help them the most effective cleaning schedule, according to Michael
Valerino, a PhD student in Bergin’s lab.

To do that, the engineers study all kinds of images of solar panels. Most are
taken with low-cost digital microscopes that let them see how much of the
surface is obscured by dust, acting as a low-cost soiling sensor. But they
also use the more advanced optical microscopes available in the Duke Light
Microscopy Core Facility and the scanning electron microscope, or SEM, housed
in Duke’s Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility, to zoom in for a closer
look at the tiny bits of flotsam and jetsam that glom together to obscure the
panels.

“We use advanced optical microscopy for size analysis,” said Valerino. “The
SEM gives us information about the size, shape and composition of the
particles, which in turn gives us a pretty good idea of where they came
from—whether it’s something like desert dust, or particles from vehicular
emissions _,”_ said Valerino. He then uses energy dispersive x-ray
spectroscopy to get more information about the particles’ composition, based
on the electrons the particles eject when blasted with x-rays.

Valerino said that looking at soiled surfaces with the SEM at different times
of the year gives the group a better idea of how those factors create energy
losses, because factors like humidity can change the size, shape, distribution
and even the composition of the particles on the surface—right after a light
rainfall, for example, the particles can become stickier and more difficult to
remove.

Valerino magnifies the particles to 2000, 5000 or even 8000 times their actual
size to get the best possible look.

Valerino talked at length about his group's work on solar panel efficiency on
Duke Engineering’s podcast, Rate of Change.

Listen Now

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

