

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pratt Announces New Environmental Engineering Major

April 24, 2013

The new degree will offer a broad range of non-engineering experiences

For those students with a keen interest in better understanding how human
activity has impacted the world around us, Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering
has launched a new major – Environmental Engineering.

Because solving the world’s most pressing environmental problems will entail
engineers working as a team with colleagues in different fields, the new
degree, BSE (EnvE), will offer a broad range of non-engineering experiences.

“The degree responds to the needs of students looking for an interdisciplinary
engineering degree that prepares them to work as environmental engineers,
graduate work in environmental engineering, or for advanced study in
environmental law, medicine, public health or global sanitation,” said Joseph
Nadeau, director of undergraduate studies and associate professor in the
Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering.

The new major will be highly interdisciplinary, bringing together topics as
diverse as chemistry, the life sciences, economics, fluid mechanics and public
health engineering.

“In addition to coursework in the basic sciences, the environmental
engineering degree builds on an extensive number of courses in environmental
science and engineering, largely in Pratt’s department of civil and
environmental engineering and Duke’s Nicholas School of Environment,” said
Mark Wiesner, professor of civil and environmental engineering and director of
Duke’s Center for the Environmental Implications of Nanotechnology.

The field of environmental engineering is one of the fast-growing in the U.S.,
according to Nadeau.

“Environmental engineering is regularly identified as a field with very great
demand,” Nadeau said. “Forbes just ranked it fifth among the 15 most valuable
college majors, with a projected job growth rate of 21.9 percent. In addition,
undergraduate study in environmental engineering prepares students for a broad
range of graduate programs.”

EnvE students will have considerable flexibility to pursue second majors and
minors within Pratt or Duke's Trinity College of Arts and Sciences.

“We’re looking for students seeking breadth in their studies and solid
preparation equired for advanced study, professional leadership and high-
impact careers,” Nadeau said.

For more information, click here.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

