

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineered Living-Cell Blood Vessel Provides New Insights to Progeria

February 6, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

New model reveals a unique role of the cells lining blood vessels in progeria,
a rare accelerated-aging disease

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed the most advanced
disease model for blood vessels to date and used it to discover a unique role
of the endothelium in Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome. Called progeria
for short, the devastating and extremely rare genetic disease causes symptoms
resembling accelerated aging in children.

The model is the first to grow both the smooth muscle and inner lining, or
endothelium, layers of blood vessels from stem cells derived from the
patients’ own skin. Combined with an advanced experimental setup that pushes
culture media that models blood through the engineered blood vessels, the
model reveals that the endothelium responds differently to flow and shear
stress with progeria than it does when healthy.

The study shows that a diseased endothelium alone is enough to produce
symptoms of progeria, and also demonstrates a new way of studying blood
vessels in dynamic 3D models to better understand and test treatments for
serious diseases.

The results appear online on February 6 in the journal Stem Cell Reports.

“The endothelium expresses the toxic protein that causes the symptoms of
progeria, but it does so at much lower levels than the outer layer of blood
vessels made of smooth muscle,” said Nadia Abutaleb, a biomedical engineering
PhD student at Duke and co-first author of the paper. “Because of this, the
entire field has been focused on smooth muscle, and the few that have looked
at the endothelium have mostly looked at it in a static 2D culture. But we’ve
discovered that it’s necessary to work dynamically in three dimensions to see
the full effects of the disease.”

Progeria is a non-hereditary genetic disease caused by a random single-point
mutation in the genome. It is so rare and so deadly that there are only about
250 people known to be currently living with the disease worldwide.

Progeria is triggered by a defect in a protein called progerin that leads it
to accumulate outside of a cell's nucleus rather than becoming part of the
nuclear structural support system. This causes the nucleus to take on an
abnormal shape and inhibits its ability to divide. The resulting symptoms look
much like accelerated aging, and affected patients usually die of heart
disease brought on by weakened blood vessels before the age of 15.

"Progeria isn't considered hereditary, because nobody lives long enough to
pass it on," said George Truskey, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor
of Biomedical Engineering at Duke. "Because the disease is so rare, it’s
difficult to get enough patients for clinical trials. We're hoping our
platform will provide an alternative way to test the numerous compounds under
consideration."

Blood vessels are difficult to simulate because their walls have multiple
layers of cells, including the endothelium and the media. The endothelium is
the innermost lining of all blood vessels that interacts with circulating
blood. The media is made mostly of smooth muscle cells that help control the
flow and pressure of the blood.

In 2017, the Truskey laboratory engineered the first 3D platform for testing
blood vessels grown from skin cells taken from progeria patients. The blood
vessels exhibited many of the symptoms seen in people with the disease and
responded similarly to pharmaceuticals.

“While the smooth muscle cells in our previous study were created using cells
from progeria patients, the endothelial cells were not,” said Abutaleb. “We
suspected that the endothelial cells might be responsible for some of the
lingering symptoms in the original study, so we began working to grow blood
vessels with both smooth muscle and endothelial cells derived from the same
patient.”

By successfully growing endothelial cells derived from progeria patients, the
researchers were able to create a more complete model of the disease. They
also tested the endothelium’s unique contribution to the disease’s symptoms by
mixing impaired endothelium with healthy smooth muscle.

They found that a diseased endothelium alone was enough to produce many of the
symptoms of progeria, but that these results only appeared when the cells were
tested under dynamic conditions.

“One of the major findings is that the progeria endothelium responds to flow
and shear stresses differently than healthy endothelium,” said Abutaleb.

The new model’s healthy blood vessels responded to pharmaceuticals more
strongly than in past papers, and the diseased blood vessels showed a greater
drop in functionality. With this advanced model in hand, the team is now
beginning to investigate how new and current drugs for progeria affect a
patient’s blood vessels.

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01
HL138252-01, UH3TR000505, UH3TR002142) and the National Science Foundation
(GRFP Grants #1106401 and DGE1644868).

CITATION: “iPSC-derived Endothelial Cells Affect Vascular Function in a Tissue
Engineered Blood Vessel Model of Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome,” Leigh
Atchison, Nadia O. Abutaleb, Elizabeth Snyder-Mounts, Yantenew Gete, Alim
Ladha, Thomas Ribar, Kan Cao, George A. Truskey. Stem Cell Reports, vol. 14,
issue 2 (2020). DOI: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2020.01.005

# # #

## Related News

September 13, 2017

### Tissue Chips Take Aim at Atherosclerosis and Rheumatoid Arthritis

August 14, 2017

### Artificial Blood Vessels Mimic Rare Accelerated Aging Disease

September 23, 2014

### $3 Million NIH Grant to Further 3-D Tissue Chip Research at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

