

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Programmable Swarmbots Help Make Flexible Biological Tools

September 17, 2019

The biomanufacturing platform uses bursting bacteria and a shrinking capsule
to produce targeted proteins

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed a new platform to
create biologic drugs using specially engineered bacteria that burst and
release useful proteins when they sense that their capsule is becoming too
crowded.

The platform relies on two main components: the engineered bacteria, called
“swarmbots,” that are programmed to sense the density of their peers within
their container, and the biomaterial that confines the swarmbots, a porous
capsule that can shrink in response to changes in the bacterial population.
When it shrinks, the capsule squeezes out targeted proteins created by the
captive bacteria.

This self-contained platform could make it easier for researchers to create,
analyze and purify diverse biologics for use in small-scale biomanufacturing.

The research appeared online Sept. 16 in the journal Nature Chemical Biology.

Bacteria are commonly used to produce biologics, which are products like
vaccines, gene therapies and proteins that are created or synthesized from
biological sources. Currently, this process involves a series of sophisticated
steps including cell culturing, protein isolation and protein purification,
each of which requires delicate infrastructure to ensure efficiency and
quality. For industrial operations, these steps are carried out on a large
scale. While this helps produce large quantities of certain molecules, this
setup is not flexible or financially viable when researchers need to produce
small amounts of diverse biologics or work in resource-limited settings.

The new technology was developed by Lingchong You, a Professor of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke University, and a former Duke postdoctoral researcher,
Zhuojun Dai, now an Associate Professor at Shenzhen Institute of Advanced
Technologies. In the new study, they show how their new platform uses
communication between swarmbots and their capsule to achieve versatile
production, analysis and purification of diverse proteins and protein
complexes.

In an earlier proof of concept, You and his team engineered a non-pathogenic
strain of E. coli bacteria to produce an antidote to antibiotics when the
bacteria reached a certain density. These swarmbots were then confined to a
capsule, which was bathed in antibiotics. If a bacterium left the capsule it
was destroyed, but if it remained inside the container where the population
density was high, it survived.

“Our first study essentially showed one-way communication, where the cells
could sense the environment within the capsule but the environment didn’t
react to the cells,” said You. “Now, we have two-way communication -- the
engineered swarmbots can still sense their density and their confinement, but
we have introduced a material that can respond when the bacterial population
inside it changes. It’s like the two components are talking to each other, and
collectively they give you very dynamic behavior.”

Once the population inside the capsule reaches a certain density, the bacteria
start to ‘pop,’ releasing all of their cellular contents, including the
protein product of interest. At the same time, this bacterial growth changes
the chemical environment within the capsule, causing it to shrink. As it
shrinks, it squeezes out the protein released from the bursting cells while
the bacteria and cell debris are kept within the capsule.

Once the proteins are collected, researchers can add a nutrient replenishment
to the dish as a cue for the capsules to enlarge. This resets the interior
environment and allows the bacteria to begin growing again, restarting the
process. According to You, this cycle can be repeated for up to a week.

To make the approach useful for biomanufacturing, the team added the capsules
to a microfluidic chip, which included a chamber for them to detect and
quantify which proteins were released. This could be replaced with a
purification chamber to prepare the proteins for use in biologics.

“It’s a very compact process. You don’t need electricity, and you don’t need a
centrifuge to produce and isolate these proteins,” said You. “It makes this a
good platform for biomanufacturing. You have the ability to produce a certain
type of medicine in a very compact format at a low cost, and it’s easy to
deliver. On top of that, this platform offers an easy way to produce multiple
proteins simultaneously.”

According to You, this ease of use has enabled the team to produce, quantify
and purify more than 50 different proteins in collaboration with the lab of
Ashutoshi Chilkoti, Alan L. Kaganov Professor and Chair of the Department of
Biomedical Engineering at Duke. They have also explored how their platform can
simplify the creation of protein complexes, which are structures made from
multiple proteins.

On a proof-of-concept experiment to produce a fatty acid synthesis pathway
from multiple enzymes, “we were able to use seven versions of our microbial
swarmbots, each of which was programmed to produce a different enzyme,” said
You. “Usually, to produce a metabolic pathway you’d need to balance the supply
chain, which could involve upregulating the expression of one enzyme and
downregulating the expression of another. With our platform you don’t need to
do that, you just need to set the correct ratio of swarmbots.”

“This technology is incredibly versatile,” he said. “That’s a capability we
want to take advantage of.”

This study was supported by the U.S. Army Research Officer (W911NF-14-1-0490),
the National Institutes of Health (R01-GM098642 and R35GM127042), the Office
of Naval Research (N00014-12-1-0631), Beijing Municipal Natural Science
Foundation (5182017) and a David and Lucile Packard Fellowship.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

