

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Spreading Holiday Cheer by Rewiring Toys

January 3, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Duke Engineering student group modifies toys for children with disabilities

Santa’s elves got a little bit of help this year from Duke University
engineering students.

Along with more than 200 volunteers from across the Triangle, members of the
Duke student group Project Tadpole spent a day modifying nearly 350 toys for
children with disabilities to help spread holiday cheer. Dubbed “Santa’s
Little Hackers,” the event was a satellite of the original program based in
Colorado.

During the event, Duke students oversaw simple modifications, helping
volunteers solder new electronics into the toys—mostly simple devices that
move, talk or light up by pushing a button or squeezing a hand. Many children
with disabilities, however, lack the fine motor control needed to interact
with such toys. To work around the problem, volunteers installed battery
interrupters and new switches that are easier for children to activate, such
as large external buttons or levers.

While they were soldering, other volunteers were boxing and packaging the
newly modified toys, which were shipped to people in need around the world for
free. But that was just during a single event—the group modifies toys year-
round, offering a much-needed service for local parents while providing the
students with hands-on experience.

“I joined Project Tadpole as a freshman and it was a really eye-opening
experience,” said Brianna Loomis, now a senior and a leader of the club. “When
you first start out as an engineering student, you’re learning more about
coding and fundamentals than you are about physical engineering skills. But in
this group, you’re able to use multimeters and oscilloscopes while soldering
actual wires. You’re learning engineering skills while doing something good
for the community.”

Project Tadpole originally started by the North Carolina Assistive Technology
Project as a statewide library of modified toys available for request for any
family in North Carolina. Many of the toys, however, would come back to the
program broken, presenting a challenge to the small, backlogged operation.

Where Project Tadpole saw a challenge, however, Kevin Caves saw an
opportunity. An expert in technologies to assist people with disabilities,
Caves thought that students in his biomedical engineering classes could help.

“I offered to have students fix the toys during a class I teach on biomedical
engineering for people with disabilities,” said Caves, who holds clinical
associate positions in the departments of surgery and medicine. “We got to
help people out while learning hands-on repair fundamentals like soldering and
diagnosing circuits.”

After a break in state funding, however, the toy library had to close its
operations. That didn’t mean that the students had to stop reaching out to the
community, however--they just formed a student-led, student-run group by the
same name of Project Tadpole.

Without a library of toys to repair, the group had to find other ways of
connecting to local parents and children. They began hosting modification
workshops, where parents could come with their children to have their toys
modified or to learn how to do the modifications themselves. The group also
meets every week for an hour in the basement of Duke’s Hudson Hall to modify
toys and plan their next event.

At the Santa’s Little Hackers event, the group was introduced to Betabox—a
mobile, shipping-container-sized laboratory dedicated to eliminating
“technological deserts.” This past November, Project Tadpole teamed up with
Betabox at the Orange County Public Library to offer a new type of event.

“For us, equipment like oscilloscopes, 3D printers and laser cutters are part
of our everyday lives, but a lot of students in local schools aren’t able to
interact with this technology,” said Varun Prasad, a senior in BME and co-
leader of Project Tadpole. “Betabox brings this type of equipment to the
students and gives them the chance to be in a workshop for a day. If we can
get local students interested in science and engineering while also helping
out some of their neighbors with modified toys, that’s a win for the entire
community.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

