

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Prototype Becomes a Paradigm

October 24, 2018

Duke Engineering's new design course challenges first-year students to create
solutions to real-world problems

Getting blood drawn or having an IV placed is rarely a pleasant experience,
and it can be even worse when it takes multiple attempts to hit a vein. To
ensure they don’t cause additional discomfort, nurs-ing students will
typically practice IV insertion on a model arm, but the plastic tool is a poor
replica of human skin.

To give students at Duke University’s School of Nursing a more lifelike model
to practice on, engineering students opted to design a new arm using a
commercial crafting material that more closely feels like human skin, and, as
an added benefit, hides evidence of previous needle marks.

This was just one of the many projects created in the Pratt School of
Engineering’s First-Year Design Experience. Developed to immediately provide
incoming engineering students with practical design experience, the course is
co-led by Ann Saterbak, the winner of the Theo C. Pilkington Outstanding
Educator Award from the Biomedical Engineering Division of the American
Society for Engineering Education and professor of the practice in biomedical
engineering, and Sophia Santillan, an assistant professor of the practice in
mechanical engineering and materials science.

“There’s a real opportunity at Duke to affect engineering on a wide scale with
a first-year experience applicable to all engineering students,” says
Saterbak, who came to Duke from Rice University, where she was associate dean
for engineering education and led efforts to infuse hands-on opportunities and
design thinking into the undergraduate program. “Engineering schools for a
long time have introduced design concepts with wooden-stick bridge projects
and the like. What’s been missing is the client, and understanding how an
engineer works to solve real problems for a real person or organization.”

In the new 5,000-square-foot Duke Engineering Design Pod, first-year
engineering students have an opportunity to practice using 3D printers, power
drills, laser cutters and other tools while acquainting themselves with the
design process––from prototyping to finalpresentations.

During the semester-long course, students are tasked with designing tools for
various community clients, with projects ranging from a device to feed lemurs
at the Duke Lemur Center to designing a tool that can capture trash from the
water flow of Ellerbe Creek for the Ellerbe Creek Watershed As-sociation.
Because students take the design course before officially declaring a major,
it’s an early op-portunity to explore projects from different programs––those
interested in biomedical engineering often choose to create medical devices,
while students interested in environmental engineering may pursue projects
related to sustainability.

Piloted in the fall of 2017, the program was in-tended to grow over three
years before becoming a requirement for all Duke Engineering students. But by
the end of the spring semester the program was doing so well that all of
Duke’s engineering departments opted to make the course an immediate
requirement for engineering students. As the number of students grow, Saterbak
and Santillan are recruit-ing faculty from each department to lead multiple
sections of the design experience. In addition to the new instructors,
students will also complete design work in the Foundry, a 7,600-square-foot
student space for collaborative design.

“It’s great to see students respond so well to the course and the practical
design experience it offers,” says Saterbak. “It shows that Duke engineers are
committed to these projects and solving problems.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

