

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Protein Structures Assemble and Disassemble On Command

September 21, 2015

Gene sequences may enable control of building bio-structures

Scientists have deciphered the genetic code that instructs proteins to either
self-assemble or disassemble in response to environmental stimuli, such as
changes in temperature, salinity or acidity. The discovery provides a new
platform for drug delivery systems and an entirely different view of cellular
functions.

The advance was made by researchers at Duke University and is the first time
that scientists have reported the ability to create biological structures that
are readily programmed to assemble and disassemble. With this knowledge in
hand, researchers have opened a new world for designer proteins and
investigations into nanotechnology, biotechnology and medical treatments.

The study appears September 21 in Nature Materials.

“The very simple design rules that we have discovered provide a powerful
engineering tool for many biomedical and biotechnology applications,” said
Ashutosh Chilkoti, chair of the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke.
“We can now, with a flick of a switch and a temperature jump, make a huge
range of biological molecules that either assemble or disassemble.”

The study investigated several triggers that can cause protein structures to
assemble or break apart, but it primarily focused on heat. Protein-based
structures that self-assemble when heated and remain stable inside of the
bloodstream have long been used in a variety of applications. The opposite
behavior, however, has long eluded researchers, especially outside of the
carefully controlled environment of a chemistry lab.

“Nobody has been able to make these kinds of materials with the degree of
complexity that we have now demonstrated,” said Felipe Garcia Quiroz, a former
graduate student in Chilkoti’s laboratory and first author of the new study.

Chilkoti’s lab has designed self-assembling proteins for drug delivery systems
for several years. Simply by adding heat, these new packing materials put
themselves together and help control where and when drugs are released inside
the body through non-temperature-related mechanisms such as changes in acidity
levels.

With the new discovery, however, drugs could be encapsulated in protein cages
that accumulate inside of a tumor and dissolve once heated. Not only would
this provide a more accurate way of delivering drugs, but the cages themselves
could be used therapeutically.

“These packaging systems have always been inert, but now we can make these
materials from bioactive components,” said Quiroz. “Once the cages get there
and deliver their cargo, they could break down into additional therapeutic
agents. We can now design two things into one.”

The research also provides new insights into the everyday functions of cells.
Because the laboratory identified the genetic sequences that encode this
behavior, they were able to point out a long list of human proteins that
likely exhibit it.

“This paper shows the incredible richness of peptide sequences that already
have this very simple switch,” said Chilkoti.

Why they assemble and what function it serves, however, remains an open
question.

“These findings will be exciting to both the materials science and the
biochemistry communities,” said Quiroz. “They’ll be able to push the limits of
what we know about these kinds of materials and then go back to explore how
biology is already making use of them.”

This work was funded by the National Institutes of Health (GM061232) and the
National Science Foundation, through the Research Triangle MRSEC
(DMR-11-21107).

###

“Sequence Heuristics To Encode Phase Behaviour In Intrinsically Disordered
Protein Polymers,” Felipe García Quiroz and Ashutosh Chilkoti. Nature
Materials, Sept. 21, 2015. DOI: 10.1038/NMAT4418

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

