

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Startup Aims to “Qatch” Blood Coagulation Data

August 1, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Platform could extend to detecting biomarkers for disease diagnosis

A startup company based on technology licensed from Duke University is looking
to disrupt a $1 billion portion of the point-of-care diagnostics industry by
harnessing a feature formerly considered a defect—surface roughness.

Many diagnostic devices that capture biomarkers suspended in blood rely on
fluorescent molecules for their detection. While this method is popular in
commercially used diagnostics, there are alternative and potentially more
powerful methods. These methods, however, are currently restrained to
laboratory settings.

One such method uses piezoelectric materials—materials that create an electric
current when strained or vibrated and, conversely, vibrate when connected to
an alternating current. Because the frequency of the vibrations changes when
molecules are stuck to surface, researchers can catch and detect the specific
proteins or antibodies that indicate a certain disease.

Current piezoelectric devices rely on precise manufacturing practices that
produce a perfectly smooth surface, as roughness can throw off the delicate
measurements. This constraint, combined with the need for relatively large
sample volumes and extensive environmental control requirements, has stopped
them from being adopted in clinical diagnostics, even though they have the
potential to become highly sensitive, portable diagnostics tools.

By introducing a tailored type of roughness, however, Zehra Parlak, a former
postdoctoral researcher in the laboratory of Stefan Zauscher, the Sternberg
Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science at Duke,
believes she has found a better solution.

“I was going on job interviews last summer when a light bulb went off in my
head,” said Zehra Parlak. “I’d been working on the concept since 2013, I just
didn’t see the commercial application until that moment, and I’ve been working
to develop a company around it ever since.”

Dubbed “Qatch Technologies,” the company’s name is reminiscent of the quartz
crystal used in its manufacturing and the “Quality factor” that it controls.
Parlak’s idea is to introduce tiny microchannels into the detection device,
multiplying the surface area that biomarkers can latch on to by 1000 times and
changing the way that the crystal vibration reacts to blood.

The idea is, of course, more complicated than it sounds. Liquids couple to the
detector differently in microchannels than they do if simply exposed on the
surface of the device. Rather than being a hindrance, however, Parlak used
this property to design an optimized platform. Though the details are
currently protected, the result is a sensitive diagnostic device that’s much
smaller and more robust than current options on the market and requires only a
fraction of the blood needed for testing.

The National Science Foundation (NSF) believes she’s on to something, having
awarded Qatch Technologies and Duke University a Small Business Technology
Transfer (STTR) award. This one-year, $225,000 grant is earmarked for high-
risk, high-reward ideas to fund the solidification of the idea and formation
of a business plan.

Parlak also received guidance and support from Jesko von Windheim, professor
of the practice of Environmental Entrepreneurship and Innovation at Duke, and
William Walker, Duke’s Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurial Ventures.

“What sets our device apart from anything done before is the way these sensors
are fabricated—the material, the design and the size,” said Parlak. “By
getting all of the applied physics and modeling right, we’re able to
characterize extremely small volumes of liquid.”

The first application that Qatch Technologies will tackle is blood
coagulation. Patients taking blood thinners must closely monitor their blood
to minimize risks of hemorrhage. Surgeons conducting surgeries on high-blood-
flow structures must make sure the site will clot before concluding the
procedure. Current tests are either quick but inaccurate due to the presence
of blood cells or highly accurate but slow and more invasive due to the
process required to remove said blood cells.

Qatch’s sensors are especially well-suited for this application. The
microchannels automatically filter out blood cells, only leaving behind the
plasma that provides the most accurate results. The liquid is drawn into the
channels through capillary action, not needing any sort of pump. Results are
obtained by simply measuring the voltage generated by the sensor’s vibrations,
no bulky optics or cameras required. And the whole test requires only 1
microliters of blood—roughly the size of an average salt crystal—making the
process of acquiring a sample as simple as a small finger prick.

“What makes Qatch’s research into microfluidic sensors so promising is the
potential to join the convenience of whole-blood testing with the laboratory-
grade quality of plasma-based testing,” said Ara Metjian, a hematologist and
assistant professor at Duke University’s School of Medicine, who will be
helping to test the new device. “The opportunity to impact the healthcare of
millions of people in a positive way is exciting.”

After working with blood coagulation, Parlak hopes to move into the broader
field of detecting biomarkers for diagnosis.

“With the tiny amount of blood required for this technology, it’s like looking
for a specific person in an elevator versus a giant banquet hall,” said
Zauscher, who is a co-inventor of the technology and will lead the research
efforts of the STTR grant at Duke. “This is a platform technology that could
be used to detect a wide variety of diseases and conditions. All of the
details have been demonstrated in the laboratory and are well-understood
through computer models. This grant will help Zehra put them together into a
palm-sized prototype.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

