

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# From the Abacus to Supercomputers to Quantum Computers

June 8, 2017

Jungsang Kim helps lead the charge into a new computing revolution

If using quantum mechanics to compute problems that are unsolvable with
today’s fastest supercomputers sounds outrageously ambitious, that’s because
it is. There are many experts who say that it can’t be done.

But that’s not stopping Jungsang Kim, professor of electrical and computer
engineering at Duke University, from pursuing the impossible. A pioneer in
translating theoretical quantum physics into physical hardware, Kim has been
engineering the components for a quantum computer at Duke for more than a
decade.

And he’s starting to sniff the finish line.

“We’ve put together and demonstrated all of the individual components needed
to build a large, scalable quantum computer,” said Kim. “We are convinced that
within the next few years we could turn this technology into much more
sophisticated quantum computers with the potential to solve problems
considered impossible today.”

Read More:

  * IonQ Raises $20M to Advance Quantum Computing for Commercial Applications
  * $31.9M Grant Targets Quantum Computing's Error Control Challenge

Imagine a computer trying to put together a jigsaw puzzle. Because computer
code is binary, either a piece fits or it doesn’t, the most efficient method
would be to pick a piece at random and attempt to attach every other available
piece until one fits. Today’s computers would then take that two-piece unit,
and repeat the entire process over and over until the puzzle is completed.

Even with today’s supercomputers, this process would take a long time because
it must be done sequentially. Quantum computers, however, have the advantage
of occupying many different states at the same time.

Now imagine a quantum computer with enough “qubits”—individual pieces of
memory analogous to today’s transistors—to assign one to each puzzle piece.
Thanks to quantum mechanics, all possible configurations are stored into a
quantum memory, which is manipulated in a very careful way so that all the
non-answers fade away very quickly and all the real answers emerge in a
systematic way. This allows the quantum computer to converge on a solution
much more efficiently than a classical computer.

“Nobel Laureate Bill Phillips said that using quantum principles to compute is
as different from classical computing as a classical supercomputer is from an
abacus,” said Kim. “There are, however, several different ways that one might
achieve this. Our group has focused on approaches using individually trapped
ions.”

The qubits in Kim’s quantum computer are individually trapped ions—atoms with
electrons stripped away to give it a positive electric charge. That charge
allows researchers to suspend the atoms using an electromagnetic field in an
ultra-high vacuum. Kim and his colleagues then use precise lasers to
manipulate their quantum states.

The method is promising. Kim and colleague Christopher Monroe at the
University of Maryland have secured more than $60 million in grant funding
over the years to transition these ideas into large, scalable quantum
computers. And they’re not alone—many other big companies like Google, IBM,
Microsoft and Intel are starting to make big investments as well.

With the potential to revolutionize industries such as materials design,
pharmaceutical discovery and security encryption, the race is on. And Kim and
his colleagues are the only ones betting on trapped ions, having started a
company called IonQ to pursue commercialization of the technology.

“Our collaboration actually has a small qubit quantum computer that's very
generally programmable,” said Kim. “We think we know how to take this system
and turn it into a much bigger system that is reliable, stable and much more
scalable. We've come to a point where we believe that even commercially viable
systems can be put together.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

