

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Joins $25M NSF Quantum Leap Challenge Institute for Robust Quantum
Simulation

September 2, 2021

The Duke Quantum Center will help drive a suite of novel simulation devices
that can predict and understand quantum phenomena

Story adapted from the University of Maryland

Duke University is joining a multi-institutional effort led by the University
of Maryland (UMD) and supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF) that
is focused on developing quantum simulation devices that can understand, and
thereby exploit, the rich behavior of complex quantum systems.

The NSF Quantum Leap Challenge Institute for Robust Quantum Simulation brings
together computer scientists, engineers and physicists from five academic
institutions and the federal government. Funded by a $25 million award from
NSF, researchers in the institute will develop theoretical concepts, design
innovative hardware, and provide education and training for a suite of novel
simulation devices that can predict and understand quantum phenomena.

Quantum simulation is a fundamental step toward realizing a world where
general-purpose quantum computers can transform medicine, break encryption and
revolutionize communications. Even the most powerful of today’s “classical”
computers struggle to represent relatively small quantum systems, an obstacle
that could be overcome by building next-generation quantum simulators.

A quantum simulator can be seen as a special-purpose quantum computer. Because
it is specifically tailored to a single type of quantum system, it is easier
to build and use, but it also cannot be applied generally to any type of
problem. It still must retain some flexibility in its hardware and
programming, however, so that it can explore multiple variations of the
quantum system in question.

“Quantum simulation is arguably the most compelling application of quantum
computers,” said Andrew Childs, professor of computer science at UMD, co-
director of the Joint Center for Quantum Information and Computer Science, and
lead principle investigator and director of the new institute. “Through
dedicated research, education and outreach, we will nurture the quantum
simulation community and provide a sharp focus on new discoveries and
applications involving quantum simulation.”

“For example, with a tunable quantum simulator, we can tweak the parameters to
help us probe materials that are not well-understood, or even show new
behavior of a material that has not yet been discovered,” said Chris Monroe,
professor of electrical and computer engineering and physics at Duke and
director of the Duke Quantum Center (DQC). “Because the DQC is building
generation upon generation of the world’s most advanced quantum computers for
scientific research, it is perfectly situated to execute on this plan.”

Established through a 10,000-square-foot expansion of Duke’s existing quantum
computing center in the Chesterfield Building, a former cigarette factory in
downtown Durham, the DQC is home to an evolving line of quantum computers that
available to users in Duke’s Scalable Quantum Computing Laboratory, or SQLab.
The SQLab offers programmable, reconfigurable quantum computing capability to
engineers, physicists, chemists, mathematicians or anyone who comes forward
with a complex optimization problem they’d like to try on a reconfigurable,
customizable 20-qubit system called the Duke Quantum Archetype.

“At the DQC, we are building quantum computers and simulators based on their
use case, and we expect our devices will be the main experimental resource in
this NSF program,” said Monroe. “Our close collaboration with computer
engineers and physicists from North Carolina State University will help inform
the architecture of our quantum simulation systems and how to optimize their
use for particular applications.”

The researchers believe that by evaluating the best approaches to small-scale
quantum simulation, they can provide a detailed blueprint for what could be
early practical applications for quantum computers. They have identified three
major scientific challenges to focus their efforts on: methods for verifying
the correctness of simulations, the interaction of simulators with their
environments, and the development of scalable quantum simulators for science
and technology applications.

To do this, the researchers plan to explore the theoretical foundations of
quantum algorithms and error correction—in conjunction with experimental
implementations of reconfigurable quantum simulators—on four leading hardware
platforms: trapped ions, arrays of Rydberg atoms, quantum photonics with
solid-state defects and superconducting circuits.

"We are working to build programmable quantum simulators whose outcomes are
unpredictable by even the world's largest supercomputers,” said Kenneth Brown,
professor of electrical and computer engineering and physics at Duke, who is
leading the research challenge that will enable the researchers to verify the
results of noisy quantum simulators. “When that happens, we will be generating
new knowledge, but how can we trust the results? This is one of the main
challenges facing this effort."

The researchers envision tight collaboration between theoretical and
experimental approaches to co-design near-term simulation protocols with
current and next-generation devices. This includes the joint development of
optical and microwave control techniques across different experimental
platforms, allowing for rapid advances in system size and controllability.

The ongoing mission of the NSF Quantum Leap Challenge Institute for Robust
Quantum Simulation will also include a strong educational component. Plans
call for a new flagship conference on quantum simulation and other outreach
and education programs that engage diverse groups of students in quantum
science, including partnerships with Morgan State University and North
Carolina Central University. Brown is serving as the Assistant Director of
Diversity and Inclusion for this effort and will be working closely with
collaborator Branislav Vlahovic at NCCU to develop undergraduate education
materials.

Faculty in the new institute also plan to introduce cross-disciplinary
undergraduate specializations in quantum information and provide quantum
information training for postgraduates and professionals.

Today’s announcement is the latest in a series of federal grants establishing
a cohort of Quantum Leap Challenge Institutes nationwide. Three Quantum Leap
Challenge Institutes launched last year, with the Quantum Leap Challenge
Institute for Robust Quantum Simulation and the Quantum Leap Challenge
Institute for Quantum Sensing in Biophysics and Bioengineering—led by the
University of Chicago—being funded in 2021.

With science currently undergoing a quantum revolution, NSF is leading the
charge through large-scale investments into centers that further the
understanding of basic quantum phenomena, fundamental discoveries that will
translate into transformative technologies.

“Our Quantum Leap Challenge Institutes program is developing the foundation of
quantum information sciences, as well as developing the future students,
faculty, startups and industry partners who are engaged in it,” said Sean L.
Jones, NSF assistant director of mathematical and physical sciences. “These
two new institutes are tapping into challenging fields that have the potential
to develop the next generation of tools that will establish the United States
at the forefront of quantum innovation.”

## Related News

May 21, 2021 | Duke Government Relations

### On the Hill: Chris Monroe Briefs Congress on Quantum Computing’s Role in
Nation’s Scientific Computing Enterprise

August 20, 2020

### Chris Monroe: Realizing Ion-Trap Quantum Computers to Solve Unsolvable
Problems

February 11, 2016

### Building the World’s First Quantum Computer

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

