

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Physics of Windshield-Cracking Raindrops Could Demolish Kidney Stones

November 5, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

New models of a phenomenon first seen in the circular cracking of supersonic
jet windshields flying through rain could point to better approaches of
pulverizing kidney stones

A plane has to be going pretty fast for a mere raindrop to crack its
windshield, but it can happen. Now, new models of the physics behind the
improbable feat may just help doctors crack kidney stones to pieces.

When supersonic jets were first being developed for commercial use in the
1960s, researchers discovered a curious phenomenon that sometimes occurs on
test flights through rainforests. Even though raindrops weigh almost nothing,
they are capable of creating ring-shaped cracks in the jets’ substantial
windshields.

Although scientists initially had difficulty explaining this curiosity,
Professors Frank Philip Bowden and John Field of the University of Cambridge
eventually recognized surface waves as the culprits. Because surface waves
spread in only two dimensions, they pack a much more powerful punch than their
three-dimensional counterparts. Certain details of the phenomenon, however,
have remained poorly understood due to a lack of mathematics to describe it
and experimental setups to validate proposed models.

In a new paper published Nov. 1 in Physical Review Research, Pei Zhong,
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke University,
and his former graduate student Ying Zhang, now an acoustical engineer for
Bose, have closed that gap in scientific knowledge.

The pair created an experimental system to visualize the stress created by
such surface waves. They put a lithotripsy device designed to shatter kidney
stones with soundwaves in a vat of water covered by a sheet of glass, then set
off a point-source explosion that expanded as a spherical shock wave.
Depending on the angle at which the shockwave hits the glass, it can produce
surface waves that spread on the water-glass boundary.

With a high-speed camera, the team measured the speed of various elements of a
shock wave over the mere moments it takes to propagate through the glass.
Zhang used those measurements to validate a finite element model constructed
using a multiphysics software called COMSOL. The models successfully
reproduced the characteristics of a series of bulk and surface waves often
observed in such situations, including one that may save people from needing
surgery to remove kidney stones.

The researchers discovered that the type of wave primarily responsible for
most of the stress and damage -- called a leaky Rayleigh wave -- propagates
much faster than a second type of wave called an evanescent wave. While
they’re created at the same time on the water-glass boundary, the leaky
Rayleigh wave eventually pulls away from the evanescent wave, which is the
moment and location of the highest tensile stress caused by the phenomenon.

They also discovered that the circular cracks originally observed on the
supersonic jet windshields don’t necessarily form at this point—they require
an existing imperfection in the glass to get started. But once initiated, the
crack propagates along a circular trajectory, following the first principal
stress in the solid set off by the advancing leaky Rayleigh wave.

“The challenge for treating kidney stones is to reduce the stones to very fine
fragments so the doctors don’t have to follow up with any ancillary
procedures,” said Zhong. “Based on the insight gained through this model, we
may be able to optimize the shape of the shock waves and lithotripter design
to create more tension on the surface of the kidney stones to open up the
defects more efficiently.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health
(R37-DK052985-22).

CITATION - “Nanosecond Shock Wave-Induced Surface Acoustic Waves and Dynamic
Fracture at Fluid-Solid Boundaries,” Ying Zhang, Chen Yang, Hao Qiang, and Pei
Zhong. Physical Review Research, Nov. 1, 2019. DOI:
10.1103/PhysRevResearch.1.033068

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

