

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ramanujam Awarded Two Grants to Help Screen for Cervical Cancer in Africa

August 25, 2015

Nimmi Ramanujam, the Robert W. Carr Jr. Professor of Biomedical Engineering at
Duke University and director of the Center for Global Women’s Health
Technologies, has been awarded two National Institutes of Health (NIH) RO1
grants to work with industry and non-profit partners to develop strategies for
wide-scale screening for cervical cancer in East Africa.

The grant represents a collaborative effort between The Pratt School of
Engineering, the School of Medicine, the Duke Global Health Institute, Zenalux
Biomedical in the RTP, 3rd Stone Design in San Francisco and a number of East
African Institutions, including the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Center in
Moshi Tanzania.

Cervical cancer affects the lives of 500,000 women worldwide each year, and
results in more than 270,000 deaths. Because more than 75 percent of cervical
cancer cases occur in Africa, where the tools commonly used in America is
prohibitively expensive, new solutions must be found.

Current screening efforts—when available—use visual inspection with acetic
acid (VIA), similar to what is done in the United States, but without the aid
of a magnification device called a colposcope. This lack of instrumentation
limits the visualization of important features on the cervix. And because
there is only 1 physician for every 45,000 people in countries like Tanzania,
the VIA screenings will need to be performed by community health workers in
order to achieve scale.

The NIH grants totaling $3.7 Million will support Ramanujam’s work to develop
and implement a new version of a colposcope that has the form factor of a
tampon with the performance (magnification, resolution, field of view) of a
state of the art colposcope. The device, which is connected to a cell phone,
is portable and easy to use at the community health level and is a fraction of
the cost of current clinical colposcopes. Algorithms that leverage features
used by expert colposcopists will automate risk stratification such that
community health workers can appropriately triage patients at the point of
care.

Another aspect of this project is to design the technology to be used without
the need for a speculum, dramatically increasing the comfort of a
gynecological exam with the potential for self-examination, much like self-
Human Papilloma viral testing.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

