

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ramanujam, Asiedu Receive the 2018 Velji Award for Global Health

February 12, 2018

Nimmi Ramanujam and graduate student Mercy Asiedu recognized for innovative
projects that address women’s health disparities

Nimmi Ramanujam, the Robert W. Carr, Jr., Professor of Biomedical Engineering
at Duke University, and PhD student Mercy Asiedu, received the 2018 Drs. Anvar
and Pari Velji Emerging Leader in Global Health Innovation Faculty and Trainee
Awards from the Consortium of Universities for Global Health. The award, which
goes to one faculty member and one student or trainee, honors researchers who
create innovative projects with a high potential impact on the lives of people
in low-income settings.

As the director of the Global Women’s Health Technologies Center, a joint
center between the Pratt School of Engineering and the Duke Global Health
Institute, Ramanujam’s research is focused on creating and improving
diagnostic and therapeutic tools across the cancer care continuum. Her most
recent creation is the Pocket Colposcope, a compact tool she created to enable
healthcare providers to both screen and diagnose cervical cancer without
expensive imaging equipment.

“It is an honor to be recognized for the work we are doing in women’s health,”
says Ramanujam. “My hope is that through technology innovation we can close
the gap in health care disparities, particularly for well-understood diseases
like cervical cancer.”

As a PhD student in Ramanujam’s lab, Asiedu also conducts research centered on
using light to detect cancer in low-resource areas. During her time at Duke,
Asiedu has worked on ways to improve the screening process with the Pocket
Colposcope. Many of the women who need to be screened are afraid of the
speculum. She has developed a speculum-free version of the Pocket Colposcope
and image processing tools that would enable women to perform self-exams
without the need for a physician or health provider, affording the woman the
privacy she needs.

"It is a great honor to be the 2018 student winner of the Velji Emerging
Leader in Global Health Innovation. Global health, specifically as it relates
to improving women's health in resource-limited settings, is particularly
close to my heart,” says Asiedu. “This recognition for doing something I truly
enjoy makes me even more determined to pursue my work on developing a low-cost
tool for speculum-free, automated cervical cancer screening. I thank my
mentor, collaborators and lab mates at the Center for Global Women's Health
Technologies for supporting me throughout my journey to impact women's health.
"

The awards will be presented in New York City at the 9th Annual CUGH
Conference on March 17, 2018. In addition to the award, Ramanujam and Asiedu
will each receive a plaque and $750 in funds to support their continued work
in global health.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

