

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Randles Receives NSF CAREER Award to Model the Movement of Cells Through
Fluid

May 6, 2020

Competitive five-year grant will help Amanda Randles create a computational
model to explore how different types of cells flow through fluid

Amanda Randles, the Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant
Professor of Biomedical Sciences, has been awarded a National Science
Foundation Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award. The competitive,
five-year, $500,000 grant for outstanding young faculty will support Randles’s
work to establish a computational framework that allows researchers to study
how fluids and various cellular structures interact.

Randles’s work involves using supercomputers to simulate how blood, particles
and cells travel through veins and arteries in the body. Her main project is a
massively parallel fluid dynamics simulation, known as HARVEY, that is capable
of modeling the full human arterial system at subcellular resolution. Randles
developed HARVEY with the goal of using the technology to improve the
diagnosis, prevention and treatment of human diseases.

With the CAREER Award, Randles will build on her work with HARVEY to develop a
model that specifically explores how different cells, like red blood cells and
immune cells, and particles interact as they flow through fluid. By connecting
this new modeling framework to virtual reality, researchers will have an
unprecedented opportunity to explore how mechanical properties influence
various cells and particles as they spread through the vascular system.

“The computational models are especially helpful because you can control very
specific parameters of your experiment that you couldn’t do with _in vitro_
models, like cell stiffness, size or shape,” says Randles. “Modeling these
different parameters gives us a more comprehensive view about how cells or
nanoparticles can travel through the body, and we can use that understanding
to create and test therapies to see how they change specific outcomes.”

Randles and her team are hoping to use this new tool to explore diseases that
affect red blood cells, like malaria and sickle-cell anemia, and to better
study processes like nanoparticle drug delivery.

The team will also collaborate with the Museum of Life and Science in Durham,
North Carolina, to develop simulations that show children how cells can move
through the body. These pre-packaged simulations will appear in virtual
reality, where students will be able to ‘surround’ themselves with different
cells and follow their movement through the body.

“The goal of this part of the project is to create curricula to expose young
kids to the power of personalized modeling, supercomputers and the next
generation of medicine,” says Randles. “It’s been really exciting to work with
the Museum of Life and Science as we put this together.”

“I’m thrilled to be recognized with the CAREER Award, and I’m very grateful to
use this opportunity to pursue this exciting project,” says Randles. “I think
this framework will be widely usable and help us illustrate what’s possible by
combining cutting edge VR technology with leadership class supercomputers.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

