

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Randles Elected to National Academy of Inventors

December 8, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Amanda Randles was recognized for her work to model how blood, particles and
cells travel throughout the circulatory system

The National Academy of Inventors has elected Amanda Randles, the Alfred
Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences at Duke University, to its 2021 class of Fellows.

Founded in 2010, the NAI recognizes academic inventors for their prolific
spirit of innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that
have made a tangible impact on the quality of life, economic development and
the welfare of society. With the latest announcement, the Pratt School of
Engineering faculty now includes 10 members of the academy. Professors Kathryn
Nightingale and Blake Wilson were elected in 2019; Nimmi Ramanujam, Joseph
Izatt and Tuan Vo-Dinh were elected in 2017; David R. Smith and Jennifer West
in 2016, and Robert Calderbank and Ashutosh Chilkoti in 2014.

Randles’ research involves the design of large-scale computer simulations to
model how blood, particles and cells travel through veins and arteries. To
accomplish this, Randles and her team developed a massively parallel fluid
dynamics simulation, known as HARVEY, that can model the full human arterial
system at a subcellular resolution. She aims to use this technology to improve
the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of human diseases.

Randles received her bachelor’s degree in both computer science and physics
from Duke University, where she received her first patent as an undergraduate
student. She earned her master's degree in computer science from Harvard
University, and her Ph.D. in applied physics from Harvard University with a
secondary field in computational science. Randles has received wide
recognition and honors for her work, including the 2017 ACM Grace Murray
Hopper Award, an NSF CAREER Award, and she was named an MIT Technology Review
Innovator Under 35, a senior member of the National Academy of Inventors and a
2020 Young Innovator of Cellular and Molecular Bioengineering.

“I am incredibly honored to be recognized along with such an impressive class
and to join this community,” said Randles. “I am grateful to all of the
colleagues, graduate students, post-doctoral fellows, collaborators, and
funding agencies that have supported me and my work over the years to enable
innovation in bringing high performance computing to the biomedical space.”

The NAI Fellows Program highlights academic inventors who have demonstrated a
spirit of innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that
have made a tangible impact on quality of life, economic development and the
welfare of society. Election to NAI Fellow is the highest professional
distinction accorded solely to academic inventors. The 2021 Fellow class hails
from 116 research universities and governmental and non-profit research
institutes worldwide.

The 2021 new Fellows will be inducted at the Fellows Induction Ceremony at the
11th Annual Meeting of the National Academy of Inventors this upcoming June in
Phoenix, Arizona.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

