

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Randles Selected to Help Pilot First U.S. Exascale Computer

July 5, 2018

Duke biomedical engineer Amanda Randles is one of a handful of researchers
getting an early turn on Aurora, the nation’s first exascale supercomputer

Amanda Randles, the Alfred Winborne Mordecai and Victoria Stover Mordecai
Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke University, is getting
an early crack at using Aurora—the nation’s newest and largest supercomputer.

Housed at Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), Aurora will be the nation’s first
exascale supercomputer, capable of performing a quintillion calculations per
second upon its expected 2021 completion. This is more than five times the
maximum theoretical limit of the world’s current faster supercomputer Summit
that debuted earlier this year. The Aurora Early Science Program (ESP)
selected 10 simulation-based projects to help prepare key applications,
libraries and infrastructure for the architecture and scale of the exascale
supercomputer.

Randles is one of five researchers outside of ANL selected to participate. She
will be leveraging Aurora’s record-breaking power to improve HARVEY—a code
capable of simulating blood flow through the human vasculature down to the
cellular level.

“HARVEY should run on Aurora without any difficulties,” said Randles, who has
been developing HARVEY for more than half of a decade. “And this allocation
will allow us to understand how to best leverage this next generation hardware
and hopefully achieve unprecedented scale with our code.”

The goal of these simulations is to develop a better understanding of the role
biological parameters play in determining where tumor cells circulating in the
bloodstream end up. Randles eventually hopes to develop HARVEY to the point
that clinicians can use it in real-time to determine a specific individual’s
risk of metastasis as well as other health complications.

The added computing power from Aurora will allow the program to simulate
larger regions of the body for longer periods of time at higher resolutions.
And with the added computing power comes funding for a postdoctoral researcher
at ANL to work full-time on preparing HARVEY for the transition. The added
help will allow Randles to develop new methods for _in situ_ visualization and
analytics.

“There will be so much memory used for the simulation that it’s really not
tractable to output all of the data for post-processing,” said Randles. “Being
able to visualize the simulation while it’s happening and analyze results
dynamically will allow us to use the large amount of data to its fullest.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

