

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Randles Named an MIT Technology Review Innovator Under 35

August 16, 2017

Her research is attempting to model how blood, particles and cells travel
through our veins and arteries

Amanda Randles, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University, has been named one of this year’s “Innovators Under 35” by the
editors of MIT Technology Review.

For nearly two decades, the publication has selected exceptionally talented
young innovators whose work they believe has the greatest potential to
transform the world. Previous winners include Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the
cofounders of Google; Mark Zuckerberg, the cofounder of Facebook; Max Levchin,
the cofounder of PayPal; and three of Randles’s colleagues at Duke
engineering: Jennifer West, Nimmi Ramanujam and Jonathan Viventi.

“There are so many amazing people who have been given this recognition,” said
Randles, who joined Duke’s faculty in 2015. “It’s an amazing honor to be on
the same list as all of them.”

Randles’s research is attempting to model how blood, particles and cells
travel through our veins and arteries. Her specialty lies in writing code for
supercomputers with thousands of processors that work in parallel. By
splitting the computational tasks among them simultaneously, Randles can cut
calculations that would otherwise take weeks down to days or even hours.

The code that Randles is cultivating is named HARVEY after William Harvey, who
made the first known complete, detailed description of the body's circulatory
system. The program creates 3D models of a patient’s specific blood-flow
dynamics. After several successes modeling simplified versions, Randles is
seeking to add more complicated variables like deformable cells and larger
volumes of blood flow.

With these advances, Randles hopes to soon begin making a real medical impact.
She has partnered with pediatric cardiologists at Duke Health to obtain a
large dataset of cardiovascular scans and surgical outcomes. Her goal is to
soon begin modeling treatment options for individual patients to help surgeons
plan complicated, life-saving surgeries. She is also working to add cancerous
cells to her model in an attempt to track their movement and predict likely
sites for them to metastasize.

“I’ve devoted the past several years to developing these 3D models of the
cardiovascular system,” said Randles. “Now I want to focus on using my work to
make a medical impact, and to begin helping real people.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

