

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Randles Wins 2017 ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award

May 2, 2018

Award recognizes the development of HARVEY, a massively parallel fluid
dynamics simulation capable of modeling the full human arterial system at
subcellular resolution

Amanda Randles, the recently named Alfred Winborne Mordecai and Victoria
Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke
University, is the 2017 recipient of the Association for Computing Machinery
(ACM) Grace Murray Hopper Award.

The Microsoft-supported award is given to the outstanding young computer
professional of the year, selected on the basis of a single recent major
technical or service contribution. Randles is being recognized for developing
HARVEY—a massively parallel fluid dynamics simulation capable of modeling the
full human arterial system at subcellular resolution. The visionary program is
already fostering discoveries that could improve the diagnosis, prevention and
treatment of human diseases.

“I am incredibly honored and humbled to have won this award when you consider
that past recipients have been Bjarne Stroustrup for laying the foundations of
the C++ programming language, Robert Metcalfe for developing the Ethernet, and
Steve Wozniak for contributions to personal computing, specifically the apple
computer,” said Randles.

A focus of Randles’s research has been in developing and applying high-
performance computing to biomedical problems. With HARVEY, she combined her
knowledge of applied physics, computational methods and parallel computing to
develop a physiologically accurate model of the movement of red blood cells
throughout the body.

The simulation mapped 500 billion fluid points using a supercomputer with 1.6
million cores (individual processors). HARVEY marked the first time a
researcher had been able to effectively model the flow of blood at the
cellular level.

Randles is presently working with collaborators at the Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute and Harvard Medical School to extend the use of HARVEY to cancer
biology and cardiovascular treatment planning. Her cross-disciplinary approach
has helped to bridge the gap between the computer and the clinic—translating
computational results into actionable data physicians can use to improve
patient outcomes.

The Grace Murray Hopper Award is one of several prestigious annual awards
given by ACM. The recipients of each award were selected by their peers for
making significant contributions that have had far-reaching impact on the
ascendance of computing as an integral part of how we live and work today,
opening promising new avenues for research exploration and commercial
application in the coming years. The 2017 recipients will be formally honored
at the ACM Awards Banquet on June 23, 2018 in San Francisco.

ACM is the world’s largest educational and scientific computing society,
uniting computing educators, researchers and professionals to inspire
dialogue, share resources and address the field’s challenges.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

