

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Randles Wins NIH Director’s Pioneer Award to Predict Heart Disease Risks

October 4, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Open-ended, $3.5 million award will help tie complex models of blood flow to
simple heartbeat measurements through AI

For more than a decade, Amanda Randles has been developing supercomputer
models of how blood flows through our arteries at the cellular and particulate
level. Dubbed HARVEY for short, the evolving algorithm can simulate how an
individual’s specific cardiovascular architecture will likely respond to
surgical procedures such as a bypass graft or stent placement.

But depending on the scope of the model, simulating even a handful of
heartbeats can require several hours of time on some of the world’s most
powerful supercomputers. The sheer volume of data processing needed to
investigate 3D cardiovascular dynamics over the course of months or even years
makes it intractable for use in informing a patient’s healthcare decisions.

“Single heartbeat metrics have been linked to a person’s risk of heart disease
or likelihood of having an adverse event after an intervention, but tracking
or predicting how a patient’s blood flow and vascular dynamics respond to a
treatment over time is still an open question,” said Randles, the Alfred
Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences at Duke. “We need to find a way around the need for that level of
brute force computational power to build a long-term map of a person’s blood
flow dynamics across many activities.”

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) agrees and has made Randles one of
2022’s eight recipients of its Director’s Pioneer Award. The Pioneer Award is
the largest of the four grants given under the NIH’s High-Risk, High-Reward
program and is intended to support innovative research that, due to its
inherent risk, may struggle in the traditional NIH peer-review process.
Investigators seeking program support are encouraged to think beyond
traditional bounds and to pursue trailblazing ideas in any area of research
relevant to the NIH’s mission to advance knowledge and enhance health.

“This unique cohort of scientists will transform what is known in the
biological and behavioral world. We are privileged to support this innovative
science,” said Lawrence A. Tabak, who is performing the duties of the Director
of NIH

Randles plans to use the open-ended five-year, $3.5 million award to create
physics-based AI models that can estimate a person’s blood flow dynamics over
time with the help of wearable devices like smartwatches. By integrating input
from wearables with machine learning and physics-based modeling, she hopes to
find a way to track changes to a person’s risk of heart disease through
indicators such as lowering levels of cardiovascular shear stress.

> "By shifting our focus from single heartbeats to creating longitudinal
> hemodynamics maps, my research program will work to improve both diagnostics
> and treatment outcomes for patients with cardiovascular disease.”
>
> amanda randles

If successful, the approach could help cut into the $320 billion in annual
healthcare costs and lost productivity caused by heart disease and help reduce
its mortality rate, as heart disease currently accounts for 25% of all deaths
in the United States.

“I’m extremely honored to receive this award and am humbled to be a part of
such an esteemed group of recipients,” Randles said. “I’m excited about the
new research directions that this award will support and look forward to
seeing what we can achieve by combining data from wearables with that from our
machine learning and fluid dynamics models. By shifting our focus from single
heartbeats to creating longitudinal hemodynamics maps, my research program
will work to improve both diagnostics and treatment outcomes for patients with
cardiovascular disease.”

Also winning an NIH Pioneer Award is Kafui Dzirasa, the K. Ranga Rama Krishnan
Associate Professor of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences in the Duke School of
Medicine, who holds a secondary appointment in Duke BME. Read more about
Duke's double Pioneer Award win on Duke Today.

## Related News

May 13, 2020

### Virtual Reality Blood Flow Simulation To Improve Cardiovascular
Interventions

May 02, 2019

### HARVEY Helps Move Bioprinted Organs Closer to Reality

August 27, 2015

### Randles Named Finalist for Supercomputing’s Top Honor

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

