

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Redesigning Healthcare: A Q&A About Duke Design Health

May 18, 2020

The Design Health program bridges the expertise in disciplines across Duke to
create real-world solutions to pressing needs in health care

This story originally appeared on the Duke MEDx website.

The Duke Design Health program gives interdisciplinary student teams a new
opportunity to create medical solutions. Formed by Eric Richardson, Paul
Fearis, and Joseph A. Knight, the program brings together students from the
schools of engineering, business, and medicine and other disciplines across
Duke to create real-world solutions to pressing needs in healthcare. Instead
of giving students and trainees pre-defined problems, they actively identify,
validate and prioritize problems to solve that impact human health during
their nine-month intensive experience.

Two of the 2019-2020 Design Health fellows, surgery fellow Konstantinos
Economopoulos, M.D., Ph.D., and pulmonology fellow Alejandro Pino, M.D., spoke
about their experience in the Duke Design Health program and the impact it
made on their career.

#### HOW DID YOU HEAR ABOUT THE DUKE DESIGN HEALTH PROGRAM?

Konstantinos: I was introduced to Eric Richardson by one of my co-residents,
Dr. Muath Bishawi, clinical associate director of Design Health. They, along
with Paul Fearis, talked to me about the goals of the program and I quickly
realized it was exactly what I envisioned embarking during the academic years
of my general surgery residency at Duke.

Alejandro: I was first introduced to the program during my fellowship
interview for pulmonary and critical care medicine, during which the program
director and Design Health mentor, Dr. Scott Shofer, mentioned it as a
possible area of interest. I made my decision to join about a year later when
Dr. Shofer reintroduced the program to me and encouraged me to apply.

#### WHAT MOTIVATED YOU TO JOIN THE DESIGN HEALTH PROGRAM?

Konstantinos: Two reasons: First was the ultimate goal of the program, which
is to bridge the communication gap between engineers and healthcare
professions. Second was a realization I had from my cumulative clinical
experience as a surgery resident in the operating room and the hospital wards.
On a daily basis, we deal with challenges in the healthcare setting that have
an easy, but not always obvious, fix. It takes a multi-disciplinary approach
to identify these challenges and implement the right solution to them. The
Design Health Program proves that that this can be done and can lead to
substantial improvement of our clinical practices.

Alejandro: I grew up in a household of engineers and have always had an
interest in designing and improvising. As a child, I helped my father build
and repair electrical equipment in Cuba. Tools and equipment were very
limited, and we often had to be creative to solve problems. For instance, we
built a water heater out of a stove wire ring, and a washing machine using a
lawn mower engine. This upbringing, marked by imagination and discovery,
shaped many of my interests, particularly my interest in solving health-
related problems by researching and developing new biomedical technologies.
For my undergraduate thesis, I built a low-cost EKG machine designed to be
used in developing countries that lack medical equipment. Designing an
inexpensive device that would provide physicians with diagnostic equipment
when their patients needed it most was my priority. The Design Health program
is an incredible opportunity to combine my engineering background with my
medical training.

#### DO YOU HAVE AN ENGINEERING BACKGROUND? IF SO, DO YOU THINK SOMEONE
WITHOUT AN ENGINEERING BACKGROUND WOULD BE SUCCESSFUL IN THE PROGRAM?

Konstantinos: I didn’t have an engineering background prior to entering the
program. I believe that entering the program without an engineering background
was a plus because it kept me unbiased from an “engineering-way-of-thinking”
during the bootcamp period of ethnographic observations and needs-screening
process. Currently I’m pursuing a master’s degree in biomedical engineering
and I hope to be able to use these skills in the future to further facilitate
innovative solutions in surgery.

Alejandro: Yes – I received my bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering and
then worked for Medtronic as a research and design engineer prior to medical
school. That was when I really developed a passion for product development.
However, many of the skills that the Design Health Program requires were not
related to medicine or engineering. Many backgrounds could be successful in
the program. As an example, one of my team members, Mariel Lambrukos, an MBA
student, could have led our team without a problem. Her skills, despite not
having an engineering background, were indispensable for the team. She
presented a different point of view, kept the team organized and created a
bond among team members. She also understood how to communicate effectively
with each team member in a way that motivated them.

#### YOU JOINED DESIGN HEALTH AS PRACTICING PHYSICIANS. WHAT EFFECT HAS THE
COURSE HAD ON HOW YOU LOOK AT THE DAY-TO-DAY OF PRACTICING MEDICINE?

> "Every day in the operating room and in the wards has become an opportunity
> for me to come up with innovative ideas that help us improve the quality of
> care we provide to our patients."
>
> -DR. KONSTANTINOS ECONOMOPOULOS

Konstantinos: After learning how to perform ethnographic observations, every
day in the operating room and in the wards has become an opportunity for me to
come up with innovative ideas that help us improve the quality of care we
provide to our patients. Knowing the “design way of thinking” has equipped me
with I need to transform every day in the hospital into a journey of
innovative thinking and discovery.

Alejandro: The course not only reminded me of my love for engineering and the
impact it can have on people but has inspired me to continue to combine
engineering and medicine. Working with people from various training and
education backgrounds on a common goal has shown me how invaluable such
collaboration is. I now view things through a different lens in the hospital.
I also have a deeper understanding of the innovation process and how to tackle
it systematically. Paul, Eric and Joseph have been instrumental in furthering
my understanding of product development and leadership skills; they constantly
set an example of how to be teacher and leader to a team.

#### IN DESIGN HEALTH, YOU WORK IN MULTIDISCIPLINARY TEAMS. WHAT HAVE YOU
LEARNED FROM YOUR TEAMMATES?

Konstantinos: I learned how to identify pressing needs in the medical
environment and how to creatively think of solutions for them. I also learned
how to not be attached to my ideas and keep an open mind when it comes to
innovative solutions. “Killing” your ideas early in the process is what makes
you start thinking outside of the box and come up with solutions that are both
user-friendly and have a good value proposition.

Alejandro: I learned a great deal from my teammates. First, they provided me
with different perspectives, ideas and viewpoints when approaching a problem
and potential solutions. Second, I learned how to best motivate my team, keep
them engaged and delegate tasks appropriate to their skill set. I also
improved my communication skills and ability to effectively coordinate among
different levels of expertise. Third, I developed a deeper understanding of
leadership; I now know that true leaders work side-by-side with their
teammates. The most important lessons I learned, though, were personal. I
learned the value of different backgrounds to a team and how to listen, take
time, and offer support both outside and inside the classroom.

#### WHY DO YOU THINK IT’S IMPORTANT FOR CLINICIANS TO TRAIN IN PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT OR ENTREPRENEURSHIP?

Konstantinos: Clinicians, specifically surgeons, are strategically positioned
to the environment where most of the clinical needs emerge or currently exist.
Our clinical experience helps us to know ahead of time which solutions have
the potential to work and which do not. Being trained in design, product
development, and entrepreneurship puts surgeons in a position to shape future
medical devices in a way that makes them safer, more user-friendly, and more
efficient in solving the need they are meant to solve in the first place.

Alejandro: Product development offers a unique perspective that goes beyond
problem solving and creativity. It teaches you how to observe with purpose,
how to truly understand a need and how to be a leader across various fields.
Physicians are often leaders of a healthcare team, but rarely have any formal
teaching on how to do so. The process of product development pushes fellows
and teams to improve upon their skills and learn new management skills to meet
deadlines, organize appropriate tasks, and prioritize deliverables, among
other things.

#### HOW HAS YOUR VIEW OF THE INNOVATION PROCESS CHANGED OR DEVELOPED AS A
RESULT OF THE COURSE?

Konstantinos: Before joining the Design Health course, I thought that the
innovation process was the sole responsibility of the inventor and required a
“lightbulb moment.” I now know that there is much more to it. The innovation
process is structured and very sophisticated. If a multidisciplinary team
follows the steps correctly, a positive outcome can be almost assured.

> Before Design Health, I never would have imagined an engineering team
> springing into action like this during a health pandemic.
>
> -DR. ALEJANDRO PINO

Alejandro: During my spring semester of Design Health the COVID-19 pandemic
started to take hold in the United States and have a direct impact on the
healthcare system. My experience working with Design Health opened doors for
me to start collaborating with many faculty in the Pratt School of Engineering
and allowed me to join the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team where I partake
in projects that have a direct impact on both patient care and protection of
healthcare staff. As an intensive care fellow with Design Health, I bridge a
gap that is constantly present between the innovation process and clinical
care of patients. I provide a deeper understanding of hospital needs, validate
some of our solutions and lead projects within the team. One of our current
projects, the PAPR Bridge Project, focuses on flexible use of the Powered Air-
Purifying Respirator (PAPR). The goal of this project is to be able to
effectively interchange various parts of each differently manufactured hood
and pump. This will enable the use of all available hoods if and when certain
PAPR pumps run out of battery, malfunction or are being used elsewhere. Before
Design Health, I never would have imagined an engineering team springing into
action like this during a health pandemic.

#### HOW MUCH TIME DO YOU SPEND WITH DESIGN HEALTH AS A FELLOW WITH TEAM
LEADERSHIP RESPONSIBILITIES?

Konstantinos: I invest approximately 15-20 hours per week. The bootcamp,
though, was a full-time 3-week experience from which I learned a lot by
observing procedures in the operating room that I used to be the one
performing. Sitting in the corner of the room watching your daily routine
gives a different perspective and you realize the pitfalls of our status-quo
clinical practices. It was a life-changing experience for me.

Alejandro: It varies depending on the part of the product design process we
are focusing on. It can take 15-20 hours a week doing various tasks –
sometimes meeting and discussing ideas, sometimes going over general details
from the group, and sometimes conducting interviews with shareholders whom the
product would impact. During the design and prototype phase, my team and I met
multiple times a week in various settings to test and validate our proof of
principal and proof of prototype. During other phases, such a need analysis
and prioritizing, we worked on our own and met twice a week to discuss our
work.

#### NOW THAT THE PROGRAM IS OVER, HOW DO YOU PLAN TO USE THE TRAINING YOU
RECEIVED? HOW DO YOU ENVISION THIS EXPERIENCE WILL HELP YOU ACCOMPLISH YOUR
FUTURE CAREER GOALS?

Konstantinos: My experience as a Design Health fellow made me fall in love
with the design and innovation process so much so that I decided to pursue a
degree in biomedical engineering at Duke. I envision using my engineering and
entrepreneurial skills to become a surgeon-innovator who will continue to help
bridge the gap between engineers and surgeons.

Alejandro: The Design Health program has truly impacted my future career
goals. It solidified my desire to continue to incorporate engineering in my
work. I picture myself working as a physician-scientist helping my patients
through my work in biomedical research and clinical care. As a researcher, I
see myself helping patients through technological innovations that can be
applied in a clinical setting. As a clinician, I picture myself helping
patients make educated decisions as to what device or procedure may be best
for their needs and motivating them to commit to making changes in their lives
to improve their health.

#### WHICH PART OF YOUR JOURNEY WAS THE MOST DIFFICULT? MOST REWARDING?

Konstantinos: The most difficult part of my journey, but also the most
rewarding, was that as a surgeon with a basic and clinical research background
but no engineering background, I was in uncharted territory. When I first
started the program, I wasn’t comfortable with anything I was doing. I quickly
realized, though, that if you put in the required work, you quickly adapt to
perform at the level needed to make a valuable contribution to the innovation
process.

An example is our new device, COVIAGE, which is an isolation tent attached to
the patient’s bed to minimize healthcare workers’ exposure to infectious
droplets while minimizing use of personal protective equipment (PPE). It also
increases our ability to safely perform non-invasive ventilation in patients
who are COVID-19 positive. Engineers from the Design Health program - Benjamin
Wesorick, Shikha Sharma, Kanishka Patel and Yaas Bigdeli - an engineering
masters student, Theresa Thompson, and I performed need screening, designed,
built and tested the device in two weeks, and will deploy it at Duke for
clinical use. Going from an idea on a napkin to clinical implementation of a
sophisticated device in such a short period of time was only possible because
we all knew and had worked with each other prior in the Design Health program.
This is a perfect example of several people working around the clock and
succeeding to make a difference and have a real impact on patient’s lives in a
short amount of time.

Alejandro: The most difficult part for me was learning how to efficiently
manage my team, especially in regard to optimizing our time, and paying
attention to important details. Working simultaneously on parallel goals, such
as financial modeling and prototyping, within a team can be challenging. Also,
working on a project for a year can get monotonous, and team creativity and
drive can suffer. As a fellow and leader within the team, finding ways to
motivate everyone and bring out the best in them throughout the project was a
challenge, but also instrumental in my leadership development. The most
rewarding part of my journey was the ability to learn from fellow students and
faculty with different backgrounds. Our team had six different nationalities,
six different undergraduate majors, and three different graduate degrees all
in six members. It was truly a diverse team that I admire and am proud to have
been a part of. All faculty had a direct impact on my career, either via grant
application writing or innovations during the difficult times of the COVID-19
pandemic. Their dedication to their students and everyone in the Design Health
family was admirable and greatly appreciated.

#### HOW WOULD YOU SUM UP YOUR EXPERIENCE IN DESIGN HEALTH IN A FEW WORDS?

Konstantinos: Life changing

Alejandro: Eye opening

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

