

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Reeves Receives NSF CAREER Award to Advance Theoretical Underpinnings of
Data Science

April 3, 2018

Competitive five-year grant will help Duke ECE faculty member explore the
intricacies of advanced methods in data processing

Galen Reeves, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and
statistical science at Duke University, has been awarded a prestigious
National Science Foundation Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award.
The award supports outstanding young faculty members in their efforts to build
a successful research enterprise. For the next five years, the $490,000 grant
will help Reeves explore the limits of emerging data analytics tools such as
machine learning and neural networks used in signal processing, machine
learning and statistics. Examples include designing new algorithms for
inference, learning and compression, as well as analyzing bi-linear and multi-
layer inference problems with applications to deep learning..

Reeves’s research takes tools and ideas from a variety of disciplines, such as
information theory and statistical physics, and uses them to determine if a
problem is solvable or if an existing algorithm is as good as it could be.
This research leverages powerful mathematical tools, such as free probability
theory and the replica method from statistical physics, as well as recent
algorithmic breakthrough based on approximate message passing algorithms.

Understanding how data processing tools work and what their limits are can
have large impacts on fields such as wireless communications, fiber optic
communications and computational photography. Reeves’s research can also help
reveal how complex algorithms such as deep neural networks work, helping to
make them more efficient and applicable to more types of datasets and
computational problems.

“The big challenge in my research is learning how these systems actually work,
so you can train them better, broaden the scope of problems they can be used
on, and transfer things learned from one setting to another,” said Reeves.
“There’s a ton of work being done on these systems, and I think theoretical
contributions can have a massive impact at this point in time.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

