

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Relentless Pursuit of Knowledge

May 6, 2019

Undergraduate alum Vincent Miao continues to expand his biomedical knowledge
through the Harvard-MIT Medical Engineering/Medical Physics PhD program

For most people, hearing about research associated with the term
“Frankenstein” may trigger some raised eyebrows. That’s not the case for
Vincent Miao, who helped create and study novel biomaterials that share the
name of the famous character during his time as a student at Duke University.

As an undergraduate in Duke’s Department of Biomedical Engineering, Miaoworked
in BME Chair Ashutosh Chilkoti’s lab, where he focused on bio-inspired
polymers that demonstrated shape-shifting abilities in response to temperature
changes. Dubbed “Frankenstein Proteins,” these biomaterials could solidify
into a scaffold at body temperature to promote tissue growth, making them
useful for tissue engineering and wound healing.

“My research experience was definitely the highlight of my time in the
department, and really at Duke as a whole,” says Miao. “I think it was really
beneficial for me to see up-close how graduate students and post-doctoral
students approach problems. That helped me formulate how I could approach my
own research.”

In addition to his work in the Chilkoti lab, Miao was also able to participate
in the Pratt Fellows Research Program, a competitive research experience that
allows students to pursue research projects for course credit. As a Pratt
Fellow, Miao explored more diverse polymer designs to create other complex and
useful materials, ultimately winning Duke’s Helmholtz Research Award in
recognition of his work.

After earning a bachelor’s degree in biomedical engineering from the Duke in
the spring of 2018, Miao opted to continue his education, moving to Cambridge,
Massachusetts to attend the Medical Engineering and Medical Physics (MEMP)
program, a PhD program jointly offered through Harvard and the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

Each year, nearly 30 percent of Duke BME graduating seniors opt to continue
their education and pursue advanced degree in prestigious universities around
the country. For Miao, the Harvard-MIT graduate program presented an
opportunity to hone the engineering skills he had developed during his four
years in Duke BME.

“The goal of this program is to create researchers that have a more
comprehensive understanding of clinical needs and opportunities for
translational medicine,” says Miao. “We take pre-clinical classes with med
students so we’ll understand how physicians approach treatment options, which
helps inform what we’ll do in a lab and how we can design tech that can one
day make its way to the bedside. There’s so much happening in biomedical
engineering—everywhere you look you have a chance to make an impact on human
health.”

Now, Miao is expanding that knowledge base as he collaborates with new
colleagues in the MEMP program and rotates through research labs. In addition
to the medical courses through Harvard Medical School, Miao is also taking a
variety of engineering courses at MIT, with focuses ranging from machine
learning to drug delivery. As he progresses through the program, he’ll also
spend 12 weeks rotating through a Boston-based hospital––similar to third-year
medical school students––so he can get a firsthand look at issues and needs in
different specialties.

“There are an incredible number of biomedical challenges out there for us to
solve in order to become better as a society,” says Miao. “Duke BME helped
foster a sense of curiosity in me and other students, where we’re always
looking to see what’s on the horizon. I’ve tried to bring that approach with
me to grad school, where I’m excited to explore every opportunity that’s
available to me.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

