

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

#  Remembering Duke Engineering's Senol Utku

June 22, 2022

The professor of civil engineering was a pioneer in computational modeling and
computer-based control of structures

Senol Utku, a professor of civil engineering at Duke University for more than
30 years—whose forward-thinking research advanced the multi-faceted
intersections of computers and structural systems, died on May 29. He was 90.

His death was announced by his son, Sinan Utku.

Faculty in the Duke Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering (CEE)
recalled that Utku was a renowned and prolific researcher, as well as an
inspirational mentor to younger faculty. Upon his retirement in 2002, Duke CEE
faculty and staff honored Utku by naming a set of annual awards that
recognizes the best peer-reviewed journal papers authored by the department's
PhD students.

“The role of engineering education as a profession designed to improve
humanity’s condition was thematic to Senol's professional life,” said Henri
Gavin, the W.H. Gardner, Jr. Chair of Duke CEE. “He valued sharing the spark
of new ideas, and prioritized student learning above everything.”

> “He valued sharing the spark of new ideas, and prioritized student learning
> above everything.”
>
> **HENRI GAVIN** | W.H. Gardner, Jr. Chair of Civil & Environmental
> Engineering at Duke

His work focused on solving problems related to pre-loaded structures, such as
suspension bridges and spacecraft, and investigated new ways to design systems
capable of enduring extreme environmental conditions such as high winds and
strong earthquakes. As computing power expanded rapidly in the 1970s and
1980s, Utku was among the first researchers to imagine how multiple computers
could be harnessed to solve complex engineering problems.

Utku was a leading thinker on the topic of computer-based feedback systems for
adaptive structures—complex constructions which can adapt their behavior to
changing conditions, such as a large parabolic antenna that can alter its
shape to counter strong winds and thereby maintain performance.

His landmark 1998 book _Theory of Adaptive Structures: Incorporating
Intelligence into Engineered Products_, discussed in detail how increasingly
sophisticated sensors, actuators and microprocessors might be applied to
control structural systems.

Utku, a native of Turkey, graduated from Istanbul Technical University in
1954. He earned a Doctor of Science (Sc.D.) from the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in 1960.

After assignments with Middle East Technical University and Istanbul Technical
University, he returned to the United States in 1965 as a senior research
engineer with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He joined Duke in 1970. By 1979,
he was a full professor in the then-Department of Civil Engineering, with a
secondary faculty appointment in Computer Science.

While at Duke, Utku advised more than 10 PhD dissertations. He served as his
department's director of undergraduate studies for seven years, and then
director of graduate studies for three years. Over his career, he taught some
of the university’s earliest courses in computational engineering.

Lee Shoemaker was one of Utku’s students. After completing a BSE from Duke
Engineering in 1975, Shoemaker went on to a position at Avondale Shipyards,
performing finite analysis of ship hulls. After several years of the work, he
grew restless and was looking for a new challenge. He wrote to a former
professor—Senol Utku—who had once urged him to consider graduate school.

Not only did Utku again encourage Shoemaker to embrace the challenge of
further study, but he also invited him to return to Duke.

“Those words were life-changing,” said Shoemaker. Upon learning of Utku’s
death, Shoemaker composed a letter addressed to his mentor, titled “The Letter
I Should Have Sent 25 Years Ago.”

“You not only mentored me and guided me to obtain my PhD, but you were
unbelievably warm to me and my family. My young children idolized you and to
bring it full circle, you shared our pride when my oldest son Chris graduated
from Duke in Civil Engineering just before you retired,” Shoemaker wrote in
the letter. “That advanced Duke degree opened doors to me that would never
have been attainable, and I am in the final years of a long and happy career
that has spanned academia and the private sector. There is no doubt that you
played an important role in making that all happen, and I will be forever
grateful.”

Utku was a fellow in the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), and the
author of nine books—including co-authorship of the fourth edition of the
classic _Elementary Structural Analysis_ which has educated generations of
structural engineers. Utku also published over 60 peer-reviewed journal
articles.

Utku’s theories were inspired and motivated by thoughts of helpful and
practical applications.

“I will always remember him saying that ‘natural events should not be natural
disasters.’ He was very much aware of the power of earthquakes and the damage
they can cause, especially in Turkey,” said John Dolbow, a professor of
engineering at Duke and an expert in computational mechanics. "I think that
saying summarized his approach to engineering—which was that we ought to look
to deploy control strategies to keep the events that we cannot control from
becoming catastrophic.”

_"Help me build on thy high road_  
 _A bridge to serve the Common Good_  
 _To smooth the way and lift the load_  
 _A link of human brotherhood"_  
-Poet and bridge designer David B. Steinman, as quoted in a 1976 dissertation
by Metwally H. Abou-Hamd, a Duke student of Senol Utku

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

