

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Revving Up Fluorescence for Superfast LEDs

October 13, 2014

Duke University researchers have made fluorescent molecules emit photons of
light 1,000 times faster than normal—setting a speed record and making an
important step toward realizing superfast light emitting diodes (LEDs) and
quantum cryptography.

This year's Nobel Prize in physics was awarded for the discovery of how to
make blue LEDs, allowing everything from more efficient light bulbs to video
screens. While the discovery has had an enormous impact on lighting and
displays, the slow speed with which LEDs can be turned on and off has limited
their use as a light source in light-based telecommunications.

In an LED, atoms can be forced to emit roughly 10 million photons in the blink
of an eye. Modern telecommunications systems, however, operate nearly a
thousand times faster. To make future light-based communications using LEDs
practical, researchers must get photon-emitting materials up to speed.

In a new study, engineers from Duke increased the photon emission rate of
fluorescent molecules to record levels by sandwiching them between metal
nanocubes and a gold film.

The results appear online October 12 in _Nature Photonics_.

“One of the applications we’re targeting with this research is ultrafast
LEDs,” said Maiken Mikkelsen, an assistant professor of electrical and
computer engineering and physics at Duke. “While future devices might not use
this exact approach, the underlying physics will be crucial.”

Mikkelsen specializes in plasmonics, which studies the interaction between
electromagnetic fields and free electrons in metal. In the experiment, her
group manufactured 75-nanometer silver nanocubes and trapped light between
them, greatly increasing the light's intensity.

When fluorescent molecules are placed near intensified light, the molecules
emit photons at a faster rate through an effect called Purcell enhancement.
The researchers found they could achieve a significant speed improvement by
placing fluorescent molecules in a gap between the nanocubes and a thin film
of gold.

To attain the greatest effect, Mikkelsen's team needed to tune the gap’s
resonant frequency to match the color of light that the molecules respond to.
With the help of co-author David R. Smith, the James B. Duke Professor and
Chair of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke, they used computer
simulations to determine the exact size of the gap needed between the
nanocubes and gold film to optimize the setup.

That gap turned out to be just 20 atoms wide. But that wasn’t a problem for
the researchers.

“We can select cubes with just the right size and make the gaps literally with
nanometer precision,” said Gleb Akselrod, a postdoc in Mikkelsen’s lab and
first author on the study. “When we have the cube size and gap perfectly
calibrated to the molecule, that’s when we see the record 1,000-fold increase
in fluorescence speed.”

Because the experiment used many randomly aligned molecules, the researchers
believe they can do even better. They plan to design a system with individual
fluorescent molecule placed precisely underneath a single nanocube. According
to Akselrod, they can achieve even higher fluorescence rates by standing the
molecules up on edge at the corners of the cube.

“If we can precisely place molecules like this, it could be used in many more
applications than just fast LEDs,” said Akselrod. “We could also make fast
sources of single photons that could be used for quantum cryptography. This
technology would allow secure communications across vast distances that could
not be hacked—at least not without breaking the laws of physics.”

This work was supported by the Lord Foundation of North Carolina and the Air
Force Office of Scientific Research (Contract No. FA9550-12-1-0491).

###

CITATION: Gleb M. Akselrod, Christos Argyropoulos, Thang B. Hoang, Cristian
Ciracì, Chao Fang, Jiani Huang, David R. Smith, Maiken H. Mikkelsen. “Probing
the mechanisms of large Purcell enhancement in plasmonic nanoantennas.” Nature
Photonics, 2014. DOI:10.1038/nphoton.2014.228

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

