

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Rhodes Family Professor: Interdisciplinary Learning for the Information
Age

August 26, 2013

Big data—a collection of massive amounts of widely varied and rapidly changing
information—offers great potential for learning. And plenty of potential
problems, too.

Understanding how this flood of information will affect our lives poses an
increasingly pressing challenge. Duke’s latest campus-wide initiative, Bass
Connections, encourages multidisciplinary approaches to education and problem
solving in information, society and culture—as well as brain and society,
global health, energy, and education and human development.

Michael Rhodes, B.S.E.’87, witnesses the impact of big data every day at
financial services company TD Bank Group.

“Working in financial services, I can see how information will transform our
culture. I think the emergence of information and big data will be as
transformational for our economy as the Industrial Revolution was during its
time,” Rhodes said.

With that vision, and in the spirit of interdisciplinary collaboration and
problem-solving, Rhodes and his wife, Maureen, offered a generous $1.667
million gift to Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering to create the
Rhodes Family Professorship Endowment with a focus on information, society and
culture. Thanks to a matching opportunity provided by Anne T. and Robert M.
Bass to fund the professorship through Bass Connections, the endowment will
total $2.5 million.

## A Leader for the Information Age

Duke Engineering will look to the Rhodes Family Professor to lead in tackling
complex issues arising from the information age, grappling with topics like
machine learning and control systems, and image and signal processing.

“Access to unprecedented amounts of information is creating new opportunities
for Duke students and faculty, working together in multidisciplinary teams, to
actively engage the world around them,” said Vinik Dean of Engineering Tom
Katsouleas.

“We envision the Rhodes Professor to be a luminary in engineering who will
help coordinate much of the activity within the Bass Connections theme of
information, society and culture, as well as provide technical leadership and
expertise as a member of Duke’s Information Initiative (iiD),” Katsouleas
said.

## A Perfect Match

Maureen and Michael said they were looking for an opportunity to support Duke,
and that Bass Connections provided a perfect match for their desire to support
a multidisciplinary initiative that was a priority for the university. Their
gift will contribute to the success of Duke Forward, the $3.25 billion
university-wide fundraising campaign and will count toward Pratt’s goal of
$161.5 million.

“Bass Connections is a great opportunity, and I would encourage other alums to
take a look at it as a way to support the university,” Rhodes said.

Rhodes maintains close ties to Duke as a member of Duke Engineering’s Board of
Visitors and as an avid supporter of Duke Basketball.

And he thinks Duke Engineering is in good hands under the leadership of Dean
Katsouleas. That’s another reason he chose to give to Duke Engineering.

“When you make investments, whether it’s for philanthropy or business, you
invest in people. I have a lot of confidence in Tom and what he is doing with
the university and Pratt,” Rhodes said.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

