

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Information Initiative at Duke Named to Honor Michael and Maureen Rhodes

December 5, 2018

The Rhodes family has made significant contributions to advance the
initiative, which works to increase computational research and expand student
engagement in the rapidly growing field of data sciences

Duke University’s landmark “big data” initiative has been named in honor of
longtime supporters Michael and Maureen Rhodes.

The Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke (iiD), founded in 2013, was
officially named by the Duke University Board of Trustees in November 2018 to
“express deep appreciation and gratitude to Michael George Rhodes and Maureen
C. Rhodes **** for their generosity,” according to the board resolution.

The Rhodes family has made significant contributions to advance the
initiative, which works to increase computational research and expand student
engagement in the rapidly growing field of data sciences. Since its launch,
more than 5,000 members of the Duke community and 50 partners from industry,
government and non-profits have engaged with the Rhodes iiD, pursuing
interdisciplinary projects ranging from predicting diabetes complications to
quantifying gerrymandering to finding parking on a crowded campus.

“Michael and Maureen Rhodes’s support has been instrumental in establishing
Duke as a leader in big data, machine learning and the quantitative sciences,”
said Robert Calderbank, the Charles Sydnor Professor of Computer Science,
professor of electrical and computer engineering (ECE) and director of the
Rhodes iiD. “They saw the promise in this initiative from the beginning, and
their early investments have made a tremendous impact not only for the Rhodes
iiD but across the university.”

Matched by challenge funds from philanthropists Anne T. and Robert M. Bass
through Duke’s Bass Connections program, the Rhodes gifts provide fundamental
support for iiD’s signature Data+ program, which is part of the Bass
Connections Information, Society & Culture theme. Data+ brings
multidisciplinary teams of faculty, graduate and undergraduate students
together each summer to explore and develop data-driven solutions to real-
world client challenges.

Winner of a 2016 global Reimagine Education award for “projects that enhance
learning and employability and are both innovative and scalable,” Data+ now
attracts more than 300 applications for 100 student slots annually. It has
also inspired similar programs across campus, including a new foundational
data sciences course for Duke Engineering undergraduates and the recently
launched +DataScience, a new initiative intended to further extend the reach
of data science to lift all schools at Duke.

“The Rhodes iiD’s innovative approach to team-based learning and problem-
solving through Data+ has been incredibly successful in engaging students
across the university, especially women, who are too often underrepresented in
the computational sciences,” said Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt
School of Engineering. “Michael and Maureen had the foresight to pave the way
for the expansion of Duke’s educational programming in data sciences at a time
when the field was just taking off, and as a result they have enabled hundreds
of students to gain insights and experience that will serve them very well in
our increasingly data-driven society.”

The couple has also funded graduate fellowships and professorships in
engineering, including the Bell-Rhodes Associate Professor of the Practice in
ECE, currently held by Stacy Tantum, who co-teaches the engineering data
science course with Data+ director Paul Bendich, associate research professor
of mathematics. They also established the Rhodes Family Professorship in ECE,
held by Vahid Tarokh—one of the world’s most cited researchers in computer
science, who was recruited from Harvard University in 2017 as part of the Duke
Quantitative Initiative.

The Rhodes iiD has been critical in fostering a community of thought leaders
in data science, according to leaders. Among others, the initiative is home to
faculty such as ECE’s Guillermo Sapiro, collaborating with Duke Health’s
Geraldine Dawson to develop a groundbreaking iOS app for early autism
screening, and ECE’s Lawrence Carin, working with Duke Health’s Geoff Ginsburg
and Robert Califf to deliver data-driven approaches to personalized health
care. Today, based on the NIPS 2017 publication index, Duke is among the top
10 organizations worldwide\--including heavy hitters like Google and Microsoft
--in the field of artificial intelligence and machine learning research.

“The Rhodes iiD has created a real center of gravity for quantitative sciences
across the university,” said Provost Sally Kornbluth. “By seeding our efforts
to attract and retain outstanding faculty and graduate students and investing
in transformative educational programming, Michael and Maureen Rhodes have
helped lay the groundwork for the continued expansion of Duke’s strengths in
the sciences and technology.”

Michael Rhodes, a 1987 graduate of the Pratt School of Engineering, said that
he and his wife, Maureen, were inspired to contribute to the iiD in part by
firsthand knowledge of how data science is changing the world. As an executive
in the data-intensive financial services industry, “I believe very strongly
that data and information will transform our lives in the 21st century,” said
Rhodes, who is the group head of Innovation, Technology and Shared Services at
TD Bank Group and a member of the Pratt School of Engineering Board of
Visitors.

“Duke’s interdisciplinary strengths give it a strong position from which to
take creative approaches to analyzing and applying data to tackle the world’s
problems, whether it’s improving health care or developing more sustainable
energy systems,” Rhodes said. “I see our investment in Duke’s information
initiative as an investment in people —outstanding faculty, promising students
and ultimately the society their work will serve. It’s been incredibly
rewarding to see the iiD’s progress and impact toward that end.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

