

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Robotics Engineer Featured in Google Expedition

March 31, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Victoria Nneji helps inspire the next generation of engineers

Victoria Chibuogu Nneji has always tried to give back to the communities that
have helped her succeed. That’s why when Refraction Media and Google called to
profile her in their new “Careers with Code” publication aimed at growing the
STEM pipeline, she accepted the opportunity.

“It’s what I naturally do anyway, so I was glad to have the chance to do it on
global scale,” said Nneji, PhD student in mechanical engineering in Duke
University’s Humans and Autonomy Laboratory.

In the laboratory, Nneji works with the Federal Railroad Administration to
model how the growing level of automation being built into freight trains will
impact the human performance of those running the system. A second project
with NASA has her working to get ahead of the curve with what policies and
regulations will be needed if Jetsons-like personal passenger drones ever take
off. Her goal in her research is to adequately consider human factors in the
design of advanced technologies that drive the complex systems we rely on for
access and mobility to products and services.

Outside of the laboratory, Nneji extends this vision for greater access and
mobility in the community because personally knows the importance.

While growing up in Durham, Nneji did not have a computer of her own. She
would catch the city bus to spend evenings and weekends at Shodor, a
computational science firm downtown, learning how to develop software and
design mathematical models that she could not show off at home. Until, that
is, she connected with a company in the Research Triangle Park to learn how to
build a computer for herself.

“As a middle school student, that experience was a great spark to get me
excited about the possibilities with STEM,” said Nneji, who attended the North
Carolina School of Science and Mathematics before enrolling in Columbia
University. “I wanted to recreate that experience for more girls while in New
York City by getting my college classmates to join me in sourcing old
computers, developing curriculum, recruiting families and leading hands-on
hardware sessions.”

Back in Durham now, she serves the community by working with the Mayor on his
Poverty Reduction Initiative to increase educational access and also
transportation mobility as a City Commissioner.

“If I didn’t do this work, I wouldn’t feel like I was being my complete self,”
said Nneji. “If others didn’t take time to help me, I may not have the
opportunities I have today.”

Yet another opportunity sprung up this past spring, when _Careers with Code_
and Google followed up to produce an “Expedition” for several of the
scientists they had previously featured.

Google Expeditions are teaching tools used in classrooms the world over. With
a tablet, cell phone and virtual reality glasses in hand, students can go on
tours anywhere in the world that would otherwise be inaccessible to them.

For Nneji’s Google Expedition, a photographer brought a device consisting of
16 Go-Pros attached together in a circle. Along with software capable of
stitching the photos together, the effect is a 360-degree view of several Duke
research spaces, complete with annotations on what is going on in each scene.
The final product shows what a day in the life of a roboticist is like,
showing others that such a career is within their realm of possibility.

The tour of Duke and Durham launched just in time for International Women’s
Day earlier this year. You can check it out yourself—all you need is the app
downloaded on one of your devices.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

