

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ‘Melting Rock’ Models Predict Mechanical Origins of Earthquakes

January 17, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

New model accurately predicts why and how friction drops as rocks slide past
one another with greater speed and undergo a phase change

Engineers at Duke University have devised a model that can predict the early
mechanical behaviors and origins of an earthquake in multiple types of rock.
The model provides new insights into unobservable phenomena that take place
miles beneath the Earth’s surface under incredible pressures and temperatures,
and could help researchers better predict earthquakes—or even, at least
theoretically, attempt to stop them.

The results appear online on January 17 in the journal Nature Communications.

“Earthquakes originate along fault lines deep underground where extreme
conditions can cause chemical reactions and phase transitions that affect the
friction between rocks as they move against one another,” said Hadrien Rattez,
a research scientist in civil and environmental engineering at Duke. “Our
model is the first that can accurately reproduce how the amount of friction
decreases as the speed of the rock slippage increases and all of these
mechanical phenomena are unleashed.”

For three decades, researchers have built machines to simulate the conditions
of a fault by pushing and twisting two discs of rock against one another.
These experiments can reach pressures of up to 1450 pounds per square inch and
speeds of one meter per second, which is the fastest underground rocks can
travel. For a geological reference point, the Pacific tectonic plate moves at
about 0.00000000073 meters per second.

“In terms of ground movement, these speeds of one meter per second are
incredibly fast,” said Manolis Veveakis, assistant professor of civil and
environmental engineering at Duke. “And remember that friction is synonymous
with resistance. So if the resistance drops to zero, the object will move
abruptly. This is an earthquake.”

In these experiments, the surface of the rocks either begins to turn into a
sort of gel or to melt, lowering the coefficient of friction between them and
making their movement easier. It’s been well established that as the speed of
these rocks relative to one another increases to one meter per second, the
friction between them drops like a rock, you might say, no matter the type.
But until now, nobody had created a model that could accurately reproduce
these behaviors.

In the paper, Rattez and Veveakis describe a computational model that takes
into account the energy balance of all the complicated mechanical processes
taking place during fault movement. They incorporate weakening mechanisms
caused by heat that are common to all types of rock, such as mineral
decomposition, nanoparticle lubrication and melting as the rock undergoes a
phase change.

After running all of their simulations, the researchers found that their new
model accurately predicts the drop in friction associated with the entire
range of fault speeds from experiments on all available rock types including
halite, silicate and quartz.

Because the model works well for so many different types of rock, it appears
to be a general model that can be applied to most situations, which can reveal
new information about the origins of earthquakes. While researchers can’t
fully recreate the conditions of a fault, models such as this can help them
extrapolate to higher pressures and temperatures to get a better understanding
of what is happening as a fault builds toward an earthquake.

“The model can give physical meaning to observations that we usually cannot
understand,” Rattez said. “It provides a lot of information about the physical
mechanisms involved, like the energy required for different phase
transitions.”

“We still cannot predict earthquakes, but such studies are necessary steps we
need to take in order to get there,” said Veveakis. “And in theory, if we
could interfere with a fault, we could track its composition and intervene
before it becomes unstable. That’s what we do with landslides. But, of course,
fault lines are 20 miles underground, and we currently don’t have the drilling
capacity to go there.”

This work was supported by the Southern California Earthquake Center
(118062196) under the National Science Foundation (EAR-1033462) and the United
States Geological Survey (G12AC20038).

“Weak phases production and heat generation controls fault friction during
seismic slip.” Hadrien Rattez & Manolis Veveakis. Nature Communications, 2020.
DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-14252-5

###

## Related News

October 24, 2017

### Manolis Veveakis: Cracking Geophysical Enigmas Worldwide

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

