

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rolling Stones, Turbulence Connect Evolution to Physics

February 17, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Bigger stones last longer and roll farther, but all tumble the same number of
times

A law of physics explaining why larger animals live longer and travel further
also extends to the simplest forms of mass migration on the planet—like
rolling stones and turbulent eddies in water and air currents, according to
research at Duke University.

The finding demonstrates that evolution doesn’t apply only to biological
things, but any physical system in motion, says Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones
Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Duke.

Ten years ago, Bejan developed a physical law called the constructal law,
which states that any flowing system allowed to change freely over time will
trend toward an easier flowing architecture. For rivers, roots and vascular
systems, this means a few large channels carry massive flows to numerous
smaller branches for dispersal. Similarly for animals, a few large species
with extensive, long-range impacts on the environment act together with many
smaller species affecting smaller regions, but in greater numbers.

In a paper published February 17, 2016, in the journal Nature Scientific
Reports, Bejan shows this idea can be generalized even further. He posits that
the most basic processes that have shaped the planet’s landscape for billions
of years—rolling stones and turbulent water currents—also adhere to these
physical laws.

“I’m defining evolution literally to mean what the word implies, which is
continuous change in a discernible direction over time,” said Bejan. “It’s a
movie. What Darwin imagined for animals and called ‘evolution’ is actually a
physical description, and it applies to everything else that morphs freely
while flowing, whether it’s biological or not. So my ‘aha’ is that evolution
is everything, because everything is in motion and is free to change while
moving.”

In his thought experiment, Bejan went through a series of simple physics
equations showing that both the time spent moving and the distance traveled of
a rolling stone should increase with its mass. He then demonstrated that an
eddy of turbulence can be thought of as a fluid eye rotating in a fluid
socket, and that its lifespan and traveling distance also increase with its
size.

Both processes have been responsible for moving objects across the Earth’s
surface for billions of years. Bejan also points out that rolling stones
evolve to have less friction so that they can travel further. That is, they
become rounder over time.

“All vehicles—both animate and inanimate—subscribe to the same rules of
lifespan and life travel,” said Bejan. “I’ve previously shown this is true for
everything from river basins to plumes of smoke. But if that wasn’t thinking
‘outside of the biology box’ enough, these are things even simpler and much
more obvious that exhibit the same size effect.”

In his previous work on animal size, lifespan and travel distance, Bejan also
demonstrated that, despite their differences, all animals should have roughly
the same number of breaths per lifetime. In much the same way, Bejan shows in
his new work that, all other things being equal, all rolling stones and eddies
have the same number of revolutions before their energy dissipates through
friction.

“These three characteristics—life span, life travel and the constancy of the
number of breaths or revolutions of bodies that move mass—unite the animal,
the eddy and the rolling stone,” said Bejan. “Traditional camps believe that
evolution is only biological and has already been explained to the hilt. I’m
showing that evolution is actually based in physics and that it is simply
design change over time. To the origin of life in non-living matter,
abiogenesis, rolling stones and turbulence add the physics of evolution.”

###

“Rolling stones and turbulent eddies: Why the bigger live longer and travel
farther.” Bejan, A. Sci. Rep. 6, 21445. DOI: 10.1038/srep21445 (2016)

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

