

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ron Piervincenzi: Duke BME Alumni Profile

May 29, 2014

Piervincenzi is CEO of the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention

**D** **** **egrees at Duke:**

  * Master's
  * PhD

**Major/Program:**

  * Biomedical Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

  * Principal, McKinsey & Company, 2000 – 2013
  * CEO, U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention

If a movie were made about Ron Piervincenzi’s career path, it might start with
him standing in a line of future computer scientists. And before the credits
rolled, the story would see him setting the standards for almost every
medication sold in the United States.

Its title might be _A Series of_ Fortunate _Events_.

The story begins in that long line of future computer scientists, where
Piervincenzi stood waiting to sign up for undergraduate classes in 1989 before
his first year at Hofstra University. “I was actually going to enroll in
computer science, but at the very last minute, I switched over to
engineering,” recalls Piervincenzi. “The computer science line just didn’t
feel right.”

> My experience at Duke was a very complete one. I didn’t feel like I was just
> a student. I also had roles as a teacher, a research scientist and an
> entrepreneur.

The snap decision turned out to be a good one, as Piervincenzi excelled at
Hofstra while often visiting the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington DC,
thanks to Hofstra Professor Sina Rabbany, Ph.D. It was there that Piervincenzi
got a taste for getting his hands dirty with, as he calls it, “real bench
research… real science… the good stuff.”

After having spent so much time in the laboratory, Piervincenzi wasn’t
interested in taking prerequisite courses while pursuing a doctorate degree.
So when Monty Reichert, the Alan L. Kaganov Professor of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke, told him that Duke was much more focused on practical
work rather than sitting in class, Piervincenzi headed for Durham.

While at Duke, Piervincenzi helped newly hired faculty member Ashutosh
Chilkoti build his laboratory from scratch, stretching dollars as far as he
could at used laboratory equipment shops. He also spent a lot of time getting
frustrated in the said laboratory. But when challenging bench work closes a
beaker, it often ignites a Bunsen burner.

“I wanted to build something pretty dramatic, so I was trying to build
molecular switches in protein molecules for targeted drug delivery, but
without much success,” says Piervincenzi. “After one particularly frustrating
day in the laboratory, I took a walk to release some steam and check my mail
over at Big Red [a/k/a Hudson Hall]. As usual, I didn’t have any, but I did
notice a hallway poster for a consulting internship program at McKinsey &
Company. I’d never heard of them, but after such a bad day in the lab, it was
appealing.”

Unfortunately, after applying to the internship program, Piervincenzi got a
call saying that it had been filled. Fortunately, a few days after that, they
offered him an interview for a full-time position instead.

Piervincenzi spent nearly 13 years at McKinsey working mostly in the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, doing healthcare work, and applying
many of the skills and knowledge he’d acquired at Duke. For some of his time
at McKinsey, he specialized in areas like drug safety, medical communications,
and interactions between physicians and the drug industry. After a subsequent
short stint at Biogen Idec working on personalized medicine, Piervincenzi got
another offer he couldn’t refuse—from the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention (USP)
in early 2014.

“It was a little awkward having been at Biogen Idec for less than a year, but
they understood what a unique organization USP is and were very gracious about
it,” says Piervincenzi.

First formed in 1820, the non-profit produces quality standards for drugs,
foods, and dietary supplements. In addition, it produces and sells “reference
standards” (chemicals) that the drug industry may use as benchmarks for
prescriptions, over-the-counter medications and more. With nearly 1,000 full-
time employees split between Maryland, India, China, Brazil, Africa and
Europe, the complex organization is growing tremendously, and learning how to
operate in a continually expanding world.

When a drug produced by an “innovator” pharma/biotech company comes off
patent, there can suddenly be tens of generic manufacturers in many countries
making and selling it all over the world. And with hundreds of drugs coming
off patent, the system is becoming incredibly complex. Helping this global
industry create the infrastructure to verify drugs’ chemical compositions is
just one of the growing roles USP is taking on.

For developing nations, this situation becomes even worse.

“More than 50 percent of the drugs reaching patients in some developing
nations are substandard or even counterfeit,” says Piervincenzi. “It’s a very
serious problem. Just imagine buying acetaminophen with a 50 percent chance
that what you’re buying isn’t actually acetaminophen. It’s hard for many of us
to imagine.”

Piervincenzi was attracted to the role at USP because of the business,
scientific and non-profit roles it plays. It may seem like a lot to handle,
but Piervincenzi says he is well prepared for the challenge, due in no small
part to his time at Duke.

“My experience at Duke was a very complete one,” says Piervincenzi. “I didn’t
feel like I was just a student. I also had roles as a teacher, a research
scientist and an entrepreneur. I think that was because of how BME models
their PhD program. It’s a very applied and practically focused path, and it
was a wonderful fit for me.

“Many top universities have both business and medical schools, but I’m not
sure all of them make their different programs so accessible to their
students. I was able to spend time at all of them almost effortlessly. And if
you think about where I am now at USP, engineering plus the business and
medical schools—that’s what I do. I’m combining the three pieces.”

__

_Article originally published in 2014._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

