

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rudin Wins 2022 Guggenheim Fellowship

April 11, 2022

Open-ended funding award will support Rudin’s work to promote transparent,
interpretable, socially responsible AI

Cynthia Rudin, professor of computer science, electrical and computer
engineering, statistical science, mathematics, and biostatistics and
bioinformatics at Duke University, has been awarded a 2022 Guggenheim
Fellowship. Given to a diverse group of about 175 exceptional applicants each
year, the award provides no-strings-attached funding for the fellows to pursue
impactful projects.

This year, 180 fellowships were awarded from a pool of 2,500 applicants to
individuals from 51 scholarly disciplines and artistic fields and directly
respond to issues like climate change, pandemics, Russia, feminism, identity
and racism.

“Our long experience tells us what an impact these annual grants will have to
change people’s lives,” said Edward Hirsch, President of the Guggenheim
Foundation and 1985 Fellow in Poetry. “The work supported by the Foundation
will aid in our collective effort to better understand the new world we’re in,
where we’ve come from, and where we’re going. It is an honor for the
Foundation to help the Fellows carry out their visionary work.”

Rudin is a pioneer and leader in using machine learning and artificial
intelligence to help society and working to make these algorithms transparent.
Over the past decade, she has developed techniques for interpretable machine
learning, which are predictive models that explain themselves in ways that
humans can understand. While the code for designing these formulas is complex
and sophisticated, the formulas might be small enough to be written in a few
lines on an index card.

Rudin has applied her brand of interpretable machine learning to a wide
variety projects, from creating an intuitive system to decide which New York
City manholes were at risk of exploding due to degrading and overloaded
electrical circuitry to developing algorithms to diagnose breast cancer that
clearly show doctors how conclusions are being drawn. She has also been a
vocal advocate for stopping the use of “black box” algorithms that hide their
decision-making processes in high-stakes arenas like health care and parole
decisions.

The Guggenheim Fellowship will support Rudin’s work toward developing a
multimedia textbook for introductory, graduate level and advanced
undergraduate level machine learning. To date, it has lecture notes, slides
and more than 100 videos.

“Right now, people might learn interpretability as a sort of specialized
subarea of machine learning,” Rudin said. “But interpretability is essential
for trust in high-stakes applications, so I decided to bring it front and
center in my textbook.”

In October 2021, Rudin was named the second winner of the “new Nobel” $1
million Squirrel AI Award for Artificial Intelligence for the Benefit of
Humanity from the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence
(AAAI) for her work. She is also a three-time recipient of the INFORMS
Innovative Applications in Analytics Award, which recognizes creative and
unique applications of analytical techniques, and is a Fellow of the American
Statistical Association, the Institute of Mathematical Statistics and AAAI.

## Related News

October 12, 2021

### Duke Professor Wins $1 Million Artificial Intelligence Prize, A ‘New
Nobel’

October 10, 2019

### Ethical Algorithms

May 13, 2019

### Stop Gambling with Black Box and Explainable Models on High-Stakes
Decisions

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

