

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Safeguarding Storage for Nuclear Waste

October 17, 2018 | Miranda Volborth

New international research project aims to keep nuclear waste isolated, 10,000
years into the future

The Leaning Tower of Pisa owes its perilous angle to the weak subsoil its
foundations were built upon, back in the 12th century. Its tilt, which
worsened gradually until modern engineers arrested it in the late 1990s, is a
good example of how incremental changes in geomechanics can add up to big
impacts over time.

Understanding the mechanics of earthen materials, and their interactions with
everything else—fluids, the atmosphere, mines, natural resources like oil and
gas, and even structures like bridges, houses, and landmarks like the tower in
Pisa—is the specialty of Duke civil and environmental engineering professor
Tomasz Hueckel.

Now, Hueckel and fellow Duke CEE faculty member Manolis Veveakis, both experts
in multi-physics geomechanics, will use an $800,000 grant from the Department
of Energy to determine how physical and chemical processes deep inside the
earth might interfere with or degrade nuclear waste storage facilities, and
how engineers might best mitigate those effects.

Storing nuclear waste poses unique challenges, to say the least. A
decommissioned fuel rod is still highly radioactive as it languishes for ten
years in a cooling tank; even after its sentence in the tank has been served,
it registers a temperature of around 215 degrees Fahrenheit, and the time it
will take to reach a point when it is no longer dangerously radioactive is
some 10,000 years away.

Currently, most nuclear waste is temporarily housed around the plant where it
was produced—but those locations are vulnerable, as illustrated by the 2011
meltdown in Fukushima, Japan, following a devastating tsunami that flooded the
nuclear plant site with salt water. A safer place to store nuclear waste,
according to Hueckel, is between a quarter-mile and a half-mile below the
earth’s surface.

For decades, nuclear-capable countries around the world have been busy
designing deep earth repositories for their waste. Each design varies, but
many of the proposed features are the same: a vertical tunnel provides access
to an array of chambers or galleries, each lined with pellets or bricks of
bentonite clay, or other crushed or pulverized rock; cracks between the bricks
are filled with more clay, then wetted to tightly seal the whole construction.
The waste itself is encased in thick titanium or stainless steel canisters,
and each canister is inserted like a plug into a single chamber, where its
multiple barriers keep it isolated from human and environmental interactions
far into the distant future.

But, says Hueckel, the steady heat emitted by the nuclear waste has a
disturbing effect on the surrounding rock; after only a few hundred years, it
may dry and crack, crumbling the protective barrier and allowing radionuclides
to migrate toward our ecosphere.

Other geochemical processes could also degrade the barrier materials—corroding
the metal canisters or transforming the clays.

“With the new grant, we are charged with understanding how temperature and
pressure contribute to drying and cracking in the planned repository, and what
kinds of remedies we can propose,” said Hueckel.

One approach takes inspiration from ancient inventors, who mixed mud with
animal hair to reinforce the floors of their stables. Hueckel plans to tests
the same technique, replacing animal hair with modern nano- or micro-sized
fibers.

He’s also looking at ways to arrange the elements of the engineered barriers
in a way that induces shear cracks instead of more detrimental tensile
cracking. “In many places where you see inclined cracks in materials, like in
an iceberg, the two surfaces slide past one another—but they don’t open up,”
Hueckel explains. “It could reduce the potential for radionuclide migration.”

Hueckel and co-PI Veveakis, both of the Duke Multiphysics Geomechanics Lab,
will be joined in their new research endeavors by French research scientist
Bolo Mielniczuk and Alexandre Guevel, research assistant and PhD student in
Duke’s Civil and Environmental Engineering graduate program. The study will be
headquartered at Duke, with collaborators at Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory, a Department of Energy entity managed by the University of
California, Berkeley; a Soil Mechanics Lab of École Polytechnique Fédérale de
Lausanne, headed by Lyesse Laloui; and a group at the University of
Montpellier, France, headed by Saïd El-Youssoufi.

More about Geomechanics Research

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

