

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Samuel Fox Wins 2017 Duke BME Prize for Patient Mobility Design

June 2, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

Rising senior Samuel Fox wins competitive entrepreneurial prize for his device
to improve patient mobility.

Samuel Fox, a student in the Department of Biomedical Engineering (BME) at
Duke University, received the competitive 2017 Duke BME Prize, an award
provided through the Duke Startup Challenge, for his entrepreneural work with
his company, Zephyr Mobility. The prize, which provides $5,000 in funding to
pursue an entrepreneurial project, is meant to encourage students to use
biomedical engineering to pursue entrepreneurship as a career path.

Fox, a rising senior in BME, started Zephyr Mobility with the goal of creating
a device that would make it easier for patients to move in and out of their
bed in the hospital.

“Zephyr Mobility aims to solve a real need in the marketplace,” says Howie
Rhee, the managing director at the Fuqua School of Business’s Center for
Entrepreneurship and Innovation, which sponsors the Duke Startup Challenge
with Duke's Fuqua School of Business. “Right now, moving patients is a large
pain point for providers, and Zephyr has a chance to improve that situation.”

The idea for Zephyr Mobility came to Fox while he was speaking with BME
Professor Kevin Caves about his class, “Devices for People with Disabilities”.
Through this discussion, Fox was introduced to an occupational health
therapist who told him that safely moving patients in and out of bed was a
major issue for health care workers, as the current devices are slow and often
require more than one caretaker to use. When patients can’t get in and out of
bed, they are more likely to develop other medical problems like pneumonia or
pressure ulcers, and they can feel isolated and develop depression.

Upon hearing this, Fox got to work creating a device that would safely and
effectively address the problem.

“My BME advisor, Professor Robert Malkin, was the first person I went to for
advice about the project, and he helped me plan an ambitious development
strategy,” says Fox. “He continually encouraged me that I was moving in the
right direction.”

Unlike the current devices in the market which hoist the patients in the air,
Fox’s device scoops an air cushion beneath the patient’s body, and then they
slide laterally from the bed to the wheelchair. According to Fox, this method
is not only more comfortable for the patient, but it is also less likely to
malfunction and it doesn’t put the caregivers under a physical strain to lift
the patient.

Fox learned about the Duke BME Prize through the Duke Startup Challenge, an
annual competition run by the Duke Innovation and Entrepreneurship Initiative.
As the winner, Fox will receive funding to continue his work by turning the
proof-of-concept prototype into a full-scale, field-testable device. To
accomplish this reality, Fox enlisted the help of Venezia Leone, a rising
sophomore in BME, as a part-time engineering intern to help him conduct field
tests with the prototype and raise additional funding throughout the summer.

BME faculty are optimistic that Fox’s success and incentives like the Duke BME
Prize will encourage more students to start their own companies during their
time at Duke. “In Duke BME, we provide our students with the skills they would
need to start their own companies,” says Ashutosh Chilkoti, chair of the BME
department. “We have a lot of faculty members who have successfully started
their own entrepreneurial projects, and we encourage and guide our students to
pursue ideas and solutions they are passionate about.”

“This experience has made me realize how important it is to seek out problems
that you think really matter,” says Fox. “I encourage other students to
experiment with their ideas as early as possible and get advice from anyone
you can, because everyone in BME wants to help curious, energetic students
succeed.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

