

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Saterbak to Lead Redesign of Pratt First-Year Experience

April 28, 2017

The program is part of a wider effort to give all Duke Engineering students
project- and problem-based experiences right from the start

The Houston Zoo needed a feeder for its giraffes.

First-year engineering students, studying under Ann Saterbak, designed it.
Along the way, they learned not only what and how giraffes eat, but also
important lessons in technical writing, design thinking and working with a
client.

That powerful idea – that students should be immersed immediately in real-
world, hands-on design in their first months in engineering school – has real
benefits for students and for a world that needs great engineers to design
solutions to its most pressing challenges.

Saterbak is bringing that groundbreaking perspective to the Pratt School of
Engineering as director of the new Duke Engineering First-Year Experience. The
award-winning engineering education expert arrived on campus this spring and
will start the new program with a pilot course for 50 first-year students in
the fall.

“There’s a real opportunity at Duke to affect engineering on a wide scale with
a first-year experience applicable to all engineering students,” said
Saterbak, who comes to Duke from Rice University, where she was associate dean
for engineering education and led efforts to infuse hands-on opportunities and
design thinking into the undergraduate program.

In 2013, she received the Theo C. Pilkington Outstanding Educator Award from
the American Society for Engineering Education-Biomedical Engineering Division
for her significant contributions to innovations in BME education.

The new Duke program builds on existing first-year hands-on design
opportunities including the Engineering Innovation course in mechanical
engineering and the Engineering the Planet class in civil engineering.

“Ann brings a nationally recognized wealth of experience in course design and
engineering education methods to Pratt,” said Senior Associate Dean George
Truskey, who is also the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of
Biomedical Engineering. “Every engineering student takes a lot of courses
during their first two years, but not every school gives them a chance to
design a solution for a community partner’s real-world problem.”

### New Design Lab Opening Fall 2017

The Jinny and Ed Pratt Commons, which is the ground-level oval space
previously occupied by Blue Express Café at the Levine Science Research Center
(LSRC), will be renovated in Summer 2017 to serve as a Design and Learning Lab
for Pratt’s new first-year hands-on engineering design course. The new
education space will include workbenches, tools and rapid prototyping machines
that the teams will use to construct physical prototypes and/or digital
artifacts as they engage in the engineering design process.

Renovations will begin when the Blue Express Café closes after graduation
weekend. Although the café will not reopen, dining options will remain nearby
at Twinnie’s, Nosh Jo Rae Café and the 13 venues in the new West Union, among
others. Phase One (primary seating/workspace area) is expected to be completed
by the start of fall semester 2017, with Phase 2 (kitchen area renovation)
expected in the following weeks.

The first-year program will add a practical design experience for all first-
year students, even before they have declared which engineering discipline
they wish to study. It’s part of a transformation of the undergraduate
experience, led by Dean Ravi Bellamkonda, that will also include common
courses in data science and applied computing, with the goal of giving all
Duke Engineering students project- and problem-based engineering experiences
right from the start.

Designing for a community client is a key ingredient, Saterbak said.

“Engineering schools for a long time have introduced design concepts with
wooden-stick bridge projects and the like,” she said. “What’s been missing is
the client, and understanding how an engineer is working to solve real
problems for a real person or organization.”

By working with a community client, students learn the process of design.
After the course, they apply those foundational skills throughout their
careers as engineering students.

Research shows that first-year students who take design courses are more
likely to stay with engineering as their undergraduate degree. Students have
improved self-efficacy, that is, a genuine belief that they can succeed in
problem-solving and meet challenges going forward in their time as
undergraduate students.

> **Quick Bio: Ann Saterbak**
>
> **Positions:** Director of Duke Engineering First-Year Experience and
> professor of the practice of biomedical engineering  
>  **Education:** PhD, chemical engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-
> Champaign  
>  **Previously:** Associate dean for undergraduate education and full
> teaching professor, Rice University  
>  **Industry Experience:** Environmental research engineer, Shell Development
> Company, 1995-1999

Saterbak has hit the ground running, said Linda Franzoni, associate dean for
undergraduate education and professor of the practice of mechanical
engineering and materials science.

“Ann is a real dynamo,” Franzoni said. “This spring she has already met with
partners for our client-focused design experience, and she has reached out to
faculty and started laying the groundwork for partners across the Duke
campus.”

This summer, Saterbak will also guide the development of a dedicated workspace
for the first-year program, where students will design and prototype their
projects. At Duke, she will be a faculty member of the Department of
Biomedical Engineering, where she will work with colleagues on enhancing
design capabilities in BME.

“Ann’s work with first-year undergraduates has been groundbreaking and
innovative,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti, chair of the Department of Biomedical
Engineering and Alan L. Kaganov Professor of Biomedical Engineering. “And, her
work as part of the design instructor team in the BME department will help us
grow and deepen the role of design throughout the undergraduate BME
curriculum.”

Saterbak holds a PhD in chemical engineering from the University of Illinois
at Urbana-Champaign and she is an elected fellow of both the Biomedical
Engineering Society and the American Society for Engineering Education.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

