

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Long Overdue Science of Phlegm

November 12, 2018

UNC School of Medicine and Duke University researchers show why coughing can't
force mucus free from airways to help people battle cystic fibrosis and
chronic bronchitis, and how new treatments could alter mucus to make coughing
more therapeutic

_By Mark Derewicz, UNC Health Care Communications and News Team_

For healthy people, mucus is our friend. It traps potential pathogens so our
airways can dispatch nasty bugs before they cause harm to our lungs. But for
people with conditions such as cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disorder (COPD), mucus can get too thick and sticky; coughing alone
can’t clear it. Infections develop, leading to severe chronic disease and
early death. Now, for the first time, scientists at the UNC School of Medicine
and Duke University demonstrated why coughing often cannot tear mucus apart
and away from the airway lining. And they showed how to make mucus thinner and
less sticky so coughing can become a therapeutic aid.

The discovery, published in the _Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences_ , helps explain how CF harms lungs over time and underscores the
importance of therapies that alter mucus enough to give immediate relief to
people with CF. Combining a host of scientific disciplines from cell biology
to materials science, the researchers established the most realistic
experimental system to date for testing the mechanical properties of mucus in
airway diseases, including COPD and asthma, that affect millions of people in
the United States.

“The tools developed in this study will help us test strategies to improve
mucus clearance in several important diseases where clearance fails,” said
lead author Brian Button, PhD, associate professor of biochemistry and
biophysics and member of the UNC Cystic Fibrosis Research and Treatment Center
at UNC-Chapel Hill.

Senior author Michael Rubinstein, professor in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University, said, “We measured the
adhesive forces that bind mucus to the airway lining and the cohesive forces
that hold mucus together, and identified several agents that show promise in
reducing the strength of mucus’s adhesive and cohesive interactions.”

In healthy people, mucus is 98 percent water. It lines airways to trap
particles, including bacteria and other microbes, before they reach the lungs.
Less than 1 percent of ordinary mucus consists of long, sticky, chain-like
proteins called mucins, which give mucus its gel-like properties. CF, chronic
bronchitis, and other “muco-obstructive” diseases feature mucus dramatically
more viscous and elastic than normal, almost gelatin-like because it is loaded
with mucins. In CF mucus, for example, the amount of mucins jumps to 10
percent and the amount of water decreases to 79 percent. While CF mucus is
still mostly water, even small changes in mucin content can have dramatic
effects on mucus viscoelasticity.

Typically, the cough reflex produces high-velocity airflows that tear mucus
apart and tear it from the airway lining and at the same time. But scientists
have never fully understood why coughing fails to clear mucus in muco-
obstructive diseases such as CF. Guided by the theoretical work of Rubinstein,
a longtime researcher at UNC-Chapel Hill before joining Duke in 2018, the
researchers at UNC developed a sophisticated system for testing the mechanical
forces required to dislodge and fracture normal and CF-type mucus.

The scientists first took airway-lining cells from the lungs of transplant
patients and cultured them in laboratory dishes. These cells produced their
own mucus layer. Button said, “They look like miniature versions of a real
airway lining.”

Because mucus is a very “soft” gel, the researchers developed a technique to
embed small meshes, which firmly bind to the mucus. This mesh is then
connected via silk thread to a motor with a force sensor to quantify the force
required to pull and tear the mucus. This allowed them to test the adhesive
and cohesive forces of mucus. And they could compare these forces in normal
mucus and CF mucus.

“We found that the adhesive and cohesive strengths of mucus increase
dramatically when the ratio of mucins to water is higher than normal,” Button
said. “In CF mucus, those strengths exceeded the forces produced by coughing.
That means coughing would have a substantially reduced ability to clear
mucus.”

The UNC and Duke researchers also used this experimental set up to test the
efficacy of two popular types of CF treatments on the properties of CF mucus.
One treatment—inhaled saline and hypertonic saline (saltier than water in the
body)—increases the water content in mucus to make it thinner. The other types
of treatments—so-called “mucolytic” therapies—make mucus less viscous and
elastic by chopping up or separating mucin molecules to reduce their ability
to stiffen mucus. The team found that both types of therapy work well at
reducing the adhesive and cohesive strengths of CF mucus.

“For patients, one of these types of therapy should help,” Button said. “But
their effects are additive, so it would probably be better to combine both.
And our research suggests that this approach could allow coughing to become
beneficial to these patients, just as it is for the rest of us when we battle
less serious ailments, such as viruses.”

The researchers now plan to use their experimental system to study the
properties of mucus and the effects of therapies in other airway diseases.

_Other authors include co-senior author Richard Boucher, MD, the James C.
Moesser Distinguished Professor of Medicine and director of the UNC Marsico
Lung Institute; Bob Dennis, PhD, professor of biomedical engineering at UNC-
Chapel Hill; UNC graduate student Henry Goodell; former UNC postdoctoral
fellow Yu-Cheng Chen, PhD; former UNC research specialists Eyad Atieh, Robert
Williams, and Elijah Lackey; former UNC postdoctoral fellow Siddharth Shenoy,
PhD; UNC research specialist and lab manager Nathan Shenkute; and former UNC
postdoctoral fellow Li Heng Cai, now an assistant professor at the University
of Virginia._

_The National Institutes of Health, the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, and the
National Science Foundation funded this research._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

