

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Scovazzi Named Kavli Fellow by the US Academy of Sciences

February 22, 2018

Kavli fellows are selected for their outstanding research contributions under
the age of 45

Guglielmo Scovazzi, associate professor of civil & environmental engineering
at Duke University, was named Kavli Fellow by the National Academy of Sciences
and the Kavli Foundation. Kavli fellows are selected for their outstanding
research contributions under the age of 45, by a committee formed with
scientists of the national academies and members of the Kavli Foundation.

"It is a great honor for me to be named Kavli Fellow," said Guglielmo, whose
research is in computational mechanics and computational fluid dynamics, at
the intersect between applied and numerical mathematics, computer science and
engineering.

As Kavli Fellow, Guglielmo was invited to participate in the 9th Kavli
Frontiers of Science Symposium, held at the Beckman Center of the National
Academies in Irvine (CA).

"Exchanging ideas with outstanding fellow colleagues from very different
disciplines at the Kavli Frontiers of Science Symposium was exciting and
refreshing," he continued. "I was very pleased to observe that in the Pratt
School of Engineering, we foster the same interdisciplinary research
environment. In this moment of happiness and success, I feel I want to express
my gratitude to Pratt."

Jointly sponsored by the US National Academy of Sciences and The Kavli
Foundation, the Kavli Frontiers of Science bring together some of the very
best young scientists to discuss exciting advances and opportunities in their
fields in a format that encourages informal collective, as well as one-on-one
discussions among participants. These are highly interdisciplinary symposia
emphasizing communication of a wide range of contemporary science topics
across the traditional disciplines. Participants include leading researchers
from academic, industrial and federal laboratories in such disciplines as
astronomy, astrophysics, atmospheric science, biology, biomedicine, chemistry,
computer science, earth sciences, genetics, material sciences, mathematical
sciences, neurosciences, pharmacology and physics.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

