

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Searle Scholar Brenton Hoffman Probes the Physical Forces Behind Disease

May 30, 2013

Hoffman says it’s time to focus on a little-studied factor in human
development and disease: Physics

Medicine has come a long way as scientists figured out more and more about the
body’s chemistry, biology, and genomics. To take it further, Duke engineer
Brenton Hoffman says it’s time to focus on another important, but little-
studied, factor in human development and disease: physics.

“Usually when we get sick, we take a pill that affects our chemical systems,”
says Hoffman, an assistant professor of biomedical engineering in the Pratt
School of Engineering at Duke. “But if you look at diseases like cancer,
cardiovascular disease, some of the muscular dystrophies, they have a very
large mechanical component that’s not well understood.”

Hoffman’s forays into the relatively new field of mechanobiology—the study of
how physical forces like those from blood flow or cell movement affect cell
behavior—could yield new approaches to tissue regeneration, new treatments for
disease, and new ways to understand and prevent birth defects. In fact, the
promise is so great that he’s won two major awards this spring to further his
research, including the 2013 Searle Scholar Award, given to the nation’s 15
most promising new faculty in the biomedical sciences and chemistry, and the
2013 Basil O’Connor Starter Scholar Research Award from the March of Dimes.

> “Brent is an outstanding scientist and engineer. He is very personable and
> collaborative and has already done a great job making connections at Duke
> with faculty in the medical center. The Searle Scholar award is a testament
> to his hard work and creativity.” -- Craig Henriquez, professor and chair of
> biomedical engineering

These awards rarely go to engineers—but Hoffman is an unusual engineer, who
earned his PhD in chemical and biomolecular engineering while studying under a
polymer physicist at the University of Pennsylvania and then learned molecular
biology as post-doctoral fellow in the Cardiovascular Research Center at the
University of Virginia. He says that bringing engineering expertise in physics
and math into the biological arena will open the door to new discoveries.

“Engineering is about helping—‘what can I put together to help other people?’”
he says. “Until now there has been no way to study how physical forces change
cellular behavior on the molecular level. As an engineer, I want to make the
tools we need to solve the problem.”

For example, it’s known that cells respond to force by altering their
structure—for example, the force of blood flow is critical to helping the
cells of the vessel walls develop and behave normally. With cancer, some
scientists now believe that the physical changes in cells and their local
environment that make cancerous tissue stiff—the palpable “lumps” we all look
for in self-exams—may actually be a trigger for cancer to spread. And part of
what’s holding up the goal of growing new tissue and new organs in the lab is
the fact that cells won’t grow properly in a culture that holds them too
tightly or too loosely.

Until recently biologists had no way to understand how these processes worked.
But Hoffman and his team have developed the first tool to help cell biologists
see under a microscope which molecules within a cell are reacting to a
physical force and which ones aren’t. The “tension sensor” consists of a
specially engineered sensor that glows like a fluorescent jellyfish under
normal conditions, but dims if it is stretched out by force. The scientists
place the sensor inside certain proteins that help form the physical link
between the cell and its surrounding environment. When a physical force
touches the engineered protein, the protein stretches, and the resulting
tension dims the sensor’s glow.

The tool allows scientists to see exactly which proteins the cell is pulling
on or being pushed by its external environment. Even better, unlike many of
the traditional tools used cell biology studies, which must destroy the cell
and its mechanical connections to tell scientists what its proteins are up to,
the tension sensor tool allows cells to remain in a natural state.

With the $300,000 Searle Scholar grant, Hoffman plans to use the tension
sensor tool to develop a “parts list” to determine which of the 150-plus types
of proteins that mediate the linkages between a cell and its external
environment are mechanically sensitive. He then will use time-lapse imaging
and mathematical modeling to determine, for the first time, the exact pathways
and process by which physical forces result in molecular changes inside a
cell.

Learning which molecules help the cell sense its mechanical microenvironment
can ultimately contribute to the development of a completely new class of
targeted therapies for diseases like cancer, he says.

Hoffman’s work is also important to understanding how cells migrate during
normal and abnormal human development. With support from the March of Dimes,
he’s studying how cells “hold hands” to pull and push each other along in
processes like embryonic development, when armies of cells band together to
move into position to eventually form a spine, a brain or a belly. Many
congenital diseases, such as cleft palate or neural tube defects, arise from
faulty connections between the cell and external environment – the cell can’t
sense pulling or pushing the way it should and so does not bind to other cells
to move into position. Hoffman’s tension sensor tool provides a way to show
precisely where the faulty connection lies, giving biologists a better sense
of how to target the problem.

“This is early work,” Hoffman says. “Mechanobiology is such a new field, we
don’t have the tools or sophisticated ideas to understand every mechanical
contributor to disease. But we will. And we have to understand it before we
can fix it.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

