

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Self-Healing Engineered Muscle Grown in the Laboratory

March 31, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Strong, lab-grown muscle is the first to heal itself after animal implantation

Biomedical engineers have grown living skeletal muscle that looks a lot like
the real thing. It contracts powerfully and rapidly, integrates into mice
quickly, and for the first time, demonstrates the ability to heal itself both
inside the laboratory and inside an animal.

The study conducted at Duke University tested the bioengineered muscle by
literally watching it through a window on the back of living mouse. The novel
technique allowed for real-time monitoring of the muscle’s integration and
maturation inside a living, walking animal.

Both the lab-grown muscle and experimental techniques are important steps
toward growing viable muscle for studying diseases and treating injuries, said
Nenad Bursac, associate professor of biomedical engineering at Duke.

The results appear the week of March 31 in the _Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences Early Edition_.

“The muscle we have made represents an important advance for the field,”
Bursac said. “It’s the first time engineered muscle has been created that
contracts as strongly as native neonatal skeletal muscle.”

Through years of perfecting their techniques, a team led by Bursac and
graduate student Mark Juhas discovered that preparing better muscle requires
two things—well-developed contractile muscle fibers and a pool of muscle stem
cells, known as satellite cells.

Every muscle has satellite cells on reserve, ready to activate upon injury and
begin the regeneration process. The key to the team’s achievement was
successfully creating the microenvironments—called niches—where these stem
cells await their call to duty.

“Simply implanting satellite cells or less-developed muscle doesn’t work as
well,” said Juhas. “The well-developed muscle we made provides niches for
satellite cells to live in, and, when needed, to restore the robust
musculature and its function.”

To put their muscle to the test, the engineers ran it through a gauntlet of
trials in the laboratory. By stimulating it with electric pulses, they
measured its contractile strength, showing that it was more than 10 times
stronger than any previous engineered muscles. They damaged it with a toxin
found in snake venom to prove that the satellite cells could activate,
multiply and heal the injured muscle fibers.

Then they moved it out of a dish and into a mouse.

With the help of Greg Palmer, an assistant professor of radiation oncology in
the Duke University School of Medicine, the team inserted their lab-grown
muscle into a small chamber placed on the backs of live mice. The chamber was
then covered by a glass panel. Every two days for two weeks, Juhas imaged the
implanted muscles through the window to check on their progress.

By genetically modifying the muscle fibers to fluoresce during calcium
spikes—which cause muscle to contract— the researchers could watch the flashes
become brighter as the muscle grew stronger.

“We could see and measure in real time how blood vessels grew into the
implanted muscle fibers, maturing toward equaling the strength of its native
counterpart,” said Juhas.

The engineers are now beginning work to see if their biomimetic muscle can be
used to repair actual muscle injuries and disease.

“Can it vascularize, innervate and repair the damaged muscle’s function?”
asked Bursac. “That is what we will be working on for the next several years.”

This work was supported by a National Science Foundation Graduate Research
Fellowship and the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and
Skin Diseases (AR055226).

###

“Biomimetic engineered muscle with capacity for vascular integration and
functional maturation in vivo.” Juhas, M., Engelmayr, Jr., G.C., Fontanella,
A.N., Palmer, G.M., Bursac, N. PNAS Early Edition, March, 2014. DOI:
10.1073/pnas.1402723111

A PDF of the article is available for download for free courtesy of DukeSpace.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

