

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Senior Capstone Design: Sensors Versus Squirrels

May 2, 2022 | Miranda Volborth

Duke Engineering students in one senior design course created sensor systems
that drove away pests and protected plants from harsh conditions

Last year was a particularly bad year for my garden. Deer stripped the apples
from the trees, the blueberries from the bushes and the blackberries from the
canes. Birds pecked holes in the tomatoes. Even the tulip bulbs were dug up
and snacked upon by ravenous rabbits.

Duke University professors of electrical and computer engineering Nan Jokerst
and Martin Brooke have had similar problems at their farm. They have tried
trapping and relocating the raccoons and other pests that were destroying
their crops, said Brooke, but they had little success.

This spring, they tried a different approach: challenging their senior-level
design class at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering to solve their garden
problems.

> Final projects included a motion-activated box that screamed like it was
> being murdered when anything with a heat signature came near it and a
> contraption that squirted lavender-scented water at feathered and furred
> intruders.

The Duke class, ECE 449: Sensors and Sensor Interfaces, is the capstone class
meant to synthesize everything students have learned as they’ve worked toward
earning their undergraduate degree. Several sections of the capstone are
offered every year, and each has a different focus, so students can choose a
topic of interest to them.

This spring, if they chose the section taught by Jokerst and Brooke, the
students could pick whether they wanted to design a sensor system to actively
detect and deter garden pests or one that could protect vulnerable new
seedlings from harsh environmental conditions.

From there, Brooke and Jokerst sorted the 39 students into seven small teams,
each of which took a wildly different approach to their challenge. The final
projects included a motion-activated box that screamed like it was being
murdered when anything with a heat signature came near it and a contraption
that squirted lavender-scented water at feathered and furred intruders. There
was also a wooden frame with a shade cloth that mechanically unrolled across
the top to protect seedlings if the day became too sunny. It also folded down
into a tidy package with a carrying strap, which earned its team members bonus
points.

That system was designed by Malvika Jain, Rachel Luria, Oscar McMullen, Luke
Turkovich and Livia Seibert. The team was nervous about its final
demonstration and had specific concerns about their system’s solar power
source. (“Our battery is losing voltage at this very minute,” one team member
muttered to another as they waited for their turn to present on Demo Day, the
last day of class.) Integrating all the components had been very tough, they
admitted, and they figured it all out only through what McMullen called
“aggressive noodling.”

“The systems are only solar powered, with a battery so they can run at night,
so the teams have to come up with a power budget. They have to figure out the
levels of power and current that each component requires and then make all the
components work together,” said Jokerst. “It might seem simple, but it’s
actually very difficult.”

And it was only one aspect of many that the students were graded on. Brooke
and Jokerst don’t live on their farm, so the ability to check in on conditions
there without stepping foot on the property is key. Each team, therefore, also
had to demonstrate that its system could be controlled remotely from a
computer or cell phone and that it could collect and report the information to
the user daily. Basic structural elements like portability, weatherproofing
and ease of use also had to be considered.

The teams took opportunities to learn from each other during their weekly
classroom presentations. If one team had success with a tricky task—like
stepping voltage up or down—students on other teams were allowed to ask,
explicitly, how they had achieved it. (Jokerst calls this practice “industrial
spying,” and said it’s encouraged.)

> “There’s a significant difference in the students who have taken First-Year
> Design. There’s no ‘random walk.’ They have learned that design is a
> process, so their approach is systematic.”
>
> **Nan Jokerst** | Professor of Electrical & computer engineering

In the end, all the teams’ systems seemed—to some degree—to work. Jokerst gave
some of the credit for the class’s high success rate to the fact that this
year’s seniors were the first cohort to have started their engineering
education with Duke Engineering’s signature First-Year Design curriculum.
“There’s a significant difference in the students who have taken First-Year
Design,” said Jokerst. “There’s no ‘random walk.’ They have learned that
design is a process, so their approach is systematic.”

“They also start to build much more quickly because they understand the value
of prototyping,” added Brooke.

The team I spoke with agreed that following familiar processes helped, even in
a less regimented environment. They also honed some soft skills; effective
time management and scheduling was critical to getting the complex project
done, they said.

They will surely lean on these skills in the coming years as they launch their
careers. Of the graduating seniors on this team, two are headed to Seattle to
work for Microsoft and Google and another is taking a job in Austin with
semiconductor manufacturer AMD.

As each team wrapped up its final presentation, they faced the last, most
important question from Jokerst.

“Did you have fun?” she asked.

More from Duke ECE

## Related News

December 07, 2021

### Solutions for Seedling Sunburn, Runaway Trash Bins and Other Woes

September 04, 2019

### 'I Can Do This'—Duke’s First-Year Design Course Boosts Student Self-
Efficacy

May 04, 2018

### What Happens When a Dolphin Holds Its Breath?

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

