

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sharon Gerecht: Engineering Stem Cells for Blood Vessel Growth

September 21, 2021 | Michaela Kane

New faculty member Sharon Gerecht uses biomaterials and other engineered
environments to help stem cells evolve into vascular cells, the foundation of
blood vessels

Sharon Gerecht will join Duke University’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering as a professor of biomedical engineering beginning January 1,
2022. An internationally recognized pioneer in stem cell and vascular biology,
Gerecht focuses on engineering and controlling the growth of blood vessels for
applications ranging from wound healing to cancer therapies. Gerecht will
contribute her expertise to Duke BME’s ever-growing biomaterials community.

Prior to joining Duke, Gerecht was the Edward J. Schaeffer Professor in
Engineering at Johns Hopkins University, where she served as the director of
the Institute for NanoBio Technology. Gerecht is an elected fellow of the
America Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering, the American
Association for the Advancement of Sciences and the National Academy of
Inventors. She is also an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine
and has authored more than 150 papers, book chapters and patents in her field.

With research at the intersection of stem cell biology and engineering,
Gerecht designed and engineered biomaterials that could guide the development
of stem cells as they evolve into vascular cells.

Gerecht will continue this work in her new role at Duke, where she is looking
forward to developing new collaborations with researchers both in biomedical
engineering and across the university.

“Not only is Duke's biomedical engineering department one of the top in the
country, but the proximity to the excellent Duke University Medical Center
also makes it easier for me to work with researchers and physicians across the
school,” says Gerecht. “I was also very excited by the new opportunities that
will be supported through the new Duke Science and Technology initiative.”

Researchers have long been exploring how best to trigger stem cells to grow
into specific cell types, like neurons, muscle cells or kidney cells. When it
comes to vascular cells _—_ the cells that make up blood vessels _—_ Gerecht
has pushed this quest forward by delving into the relationship between stem
cells and their surrounding microenvironments. This not only involves studying
the composition of the matrix surrounding the cells, but also exploring how
the cells respond to mechanical forces, like pressure, and tracking the amount
of oxygen in the area around the cells.

“Our blood vessels deliver oxygen to almost all of the organs in our body, so
any injury or defect in development can impair their function,” says Gerecht.
“My lab uses biomaterials and microfluidics to create systems that mimic the
natural environment where these cells would grow so we can look at how
specific factors can impact their function. If we can understand that, then we
can hopefully explore what we need to do to control blood vessel growth.”

This work, Gerecht says, could be important for uses like wound healing, where
the body could be triggered to naturally create new blood vessels that would
support the formation of new, healthy tissue. The opposite approach could also
be useful for studying potential cancer therapeutics, as researchers could
determine how to prevent blood vessels from growing and supporting a tumor.

In addition to this work, Gerecht is also pursuing a research project that
extends out of the lab—and beyond the Earth’s atmosphere.

“My lab is working with TRISH/NASA to study how space radiation impacts the
human vascular system,” she says. “The goal is to explore how the human body
would be affected when you’re traveling through space for a prolonged period
of time to a planet like Mars. A side impact from this project that I would
love to eventually explore would be to study how radiation as a therapy
specifically impacts the healthy vascular system.”

Beyond her research, Gerecht is also looking forward to the opportunities to
mentor and support students through her new role at Duke.

“My lab’s work is at the intersection of many fields, so in addition to
biomedical engineering students, I’m excited to work with students and
postdocs from developmental and cell biology, cancer biology and materials
sciences,” says Gerecht. “Beyond working with students with diverse research
interests, I also want to create new research opportunities for students from
underrepresented groups, both in my lab and across Duke as an institution.
There is no shortage of opportunities for me at Duke, and I can’t wait to get
started.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

