

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Shop Managers Nationwide Gather to Focus on Student Safety

July 29, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Duke hosts the first ever Student Machine Shop Manager Conference to
facilitate networking and talking about best practices

In April of 2013, an exemplary senior at Yale University named Michele Dufault
was killed just weeks away from graduation while working late at night on her
senior thesis in the school’s student machine shop. Steve Earp, manager of the
Pratt School of Engineering Student Machine Shop at Duke University, wants to
make sure such tragedies never happen again.

Earp spent the past year searching out the managers of student machine shops
across the country and inviting them to a conference to network and talk about
best practices. The conference took place at Duke from July 14-16, and hosted
more than 60 student shop managers from coast to coast. It was the first of
what Earp hopes will be a regularly held meeting.

“I think the conference was successful in providing a national collegiate
forum to discuss best shop safety practices,” said Earp. “We considered ways
to provide higher standards in safety accompanying academic excellence.”

Currently, student machine shops across the country have vastly different
rules. Some require staff supervision while others are entirely student-run.
Some have students simply drop off their projects so that staff members can
complete the machine work for them, while others are open into the wee hours
of the morning with no supervision.

The conference explored differences between shops, established ties for shop
managers to seek advice from their peers, and started discussion about what
Earp hopes will become a standard set of best practices to help protect
students nationwide. Vendors were also present, demonstrating safety equipment
and contributing updated information regarding national Federal Surplus
offerings.

As a result of the conference, a network of communication was established
providing an interactive Facebook group, Linked-In contacts, and shop
equipment surveys. This will be beneficial in allowing members to access group
support and troubleshoot issues that arise on a daily basis. Feedback from
conference attendees was highly encouraging, and the group has already
announced the Second Annual Student Shop Managers Conference, to be hosted by
Georgia Tech in July 2016.

“I found it especially valuable to learn about the various models each shop
implemented at their institution, and I will begin immediately to implement
safety improvements,” said Todd Schweisinger, senior lecturer of mechanical
engineering and coordinator of undergraduate laboratories at Clemson
University. “Because of the conference, I now plan to explore the possibility
of researching different models of shop operations and ultimately
disseminating the results in scholarly journals.”

“Student shop managers will be able to draw from the wealth of knowledge that
exists within the collegiate framework at a national level,” added Earp.
“Promoting best practices will allow each manager to create a stable and
cohesive working environment for students. The excitement generated by the
conference has drawn together a new community of professionals desiring to
achieve optimally safe working environments for students as they seek to
prepare the rising generation of new engineers.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

