

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Shyni Varghese: Making Miniature Models of Muscles, Bones and Tumors

November 18, 2016

New faculty member Shyni Varghese brings tissue-on-a-chip and bone-healing
technologies to Duke this summer

Shyni will join the faculty of Duke University’s engineering and medical
schools in summer 2017. With a triple appointment in the Departments of
Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, and
Orthopaedic Surgery, Varghese will be the first MEDx Investigator.

A new initiative of the Pratt School of Engineering and Duke School of
Medicine, Duke MEDx seeks to enhance and form new collaborations between
doctors and engineers. As its first faculty member with a joint appointment
through the program, Varghese will demonstrate just how powerful such
partnerships can become.

A leader in the field of biomaterials and stem cells, Varghese will continue
to develop her research at Duke in three major areas—musculoskeletal tissue
repair, disease biophysics and organ-on-a-chip technology.

“I am delighted that Dr. Varghese will be Duke’s first MEDx Investigator – a
distinction that recognizes her strategic contribution at the interface of
medicine and engineering with her work in innovative biomaterials and stem
cells,” said Geoff Ginsburg, professor of medicine and director of MEDx. “She
is a role model for MEDx and we expect her to be a catalyst for great
interactions with students and faculty from both Pratt and the School of
Medicine.”

One of the major hurdles to developing new pharmaceuticals and understanding
diseases is the wide variety of responses they provoke in different tissues in
the body. Using animal models is imperfect at best, and drug effects and
disease symptoms can vary greatly from person to person.

To develop a better model, Varghese is working to simulate human tissues in
lab-on-a-chip technologies and combine them into an integrated system that
mimics the complex functions of the human body. Specifically, Varghese is
focusing on musculoskeletal tissues and tumor-on-a-chip models.

“We’re trying to integrate these small-scale but very robust human-specific
models to look at how immune cells can be recruited to a tumor site and to
understand the role of the cellular environment on cancer spread and growth,”
said Varghese, who joins Duke from the University of California – San Diego.
“Mimicking skeletal muscle on a chip will also help us model many different
muscle diseases ex vivo.”

In the same vein, Varghese’s second focus of study will be on developing
strategies to promote musculoskeletal tissue repair. Besides using a stem cell
and tissue engineering approach, Varghese’s laboratory has devised strategies
to recruit and activate patient’s own cells to promote tissue repair and
regeneration.

Her research has identified molecular pathways that has shown to reduce—and
even reverse—the effects of osteoporosis in animal models. Varghese’s
laboratory has also identified a new molecular player that contributes to skin
fibrosis such as scleroderma. As the next step, her group is exploring new
therapeutic strategies to treat skin fibrosis and scarring.

“I was drawn to this position because of its 50/50 split between the
engineering school and the medical school. It seemed like a very natural fit,”
said Varghese. “The position will give me easier access to my needs such as
tissue samples. It will also allow me to learn firsthand about new problems
clinicians are facing so that I can find solutions.”

“Shyni is a leading biomaterials scientist and will greatly strengthen this
area of research at Duke,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti, professor and chair of the
Department of Biomedical Engineering. “Her appointment across three
departments will build intellectual bridges between Pratt and the School of
Medicine, and is the harbinger, I hope, of other such collaborative hires
between the two schools in the future.”

"Shyni has a unique research focus, one that crosses engineering and medical
disciplines in a way that will ultimately result in the development of
improved therapeutic approaches to musculoskeletal repair and regeneration,”
echoed Benjamin Alman, professor and chair of the Department of Orthopaedic
Surgery. “Her recruitment by multiple departments with the help of MEDx is a
great example of how a cooperative approach can be used to bring exceptional
faculty to Duke."

Varghese says that, besides the obvious collaborations her new position will
enable, she is excited about the opportunity it will bring for taking her
research from the laboratory to the bedside.

“I already know many people I want to begin collaborations with in the
clinical arena, and I’ll be looking to develop new research programs in that
direction,” said Varghese.

Besides the unique opportunity her new position affords, Varghese says she was
attracted to Duke because of its students. Often recruited by various private
research organizations, she says she was never really tempted to leave
academia.

“I really wanted to be able to keep working with students. That’s one thing I
will never be able to give up,” said Varghese, who puts an emphasis on
recruiting and mentoring students from diverse and underrepresented
backgrounds. “I love motivating them and keeping them excited and passionate
about their work. Being able to influence undergraduate and graduate students
as they develop their own research interests and independence is something I
think is extremely valuable.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

