

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sister Programs Offer Shared Experiences: The Duke-Duke Kunshan ECE Master’s
Program Turns Three

March 8, 2021

_The Duke-DKU MEng degree in ECE offers a solid foundation for aspiring
software engineers and data analysts —and a haven for Duke students unable to
travel internationally during the pandemic_

When Duke Engineering’s Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
partnered with Duke Kunshan University (DKU) to launch a new Master of
Engineering degree in ECE in 2018, one of the program’s biggest draws was the
opportunity for its students to develop international business savvy. The
first year in the program would be spent in Kunshan, China, at DKU; students
would live and study in Durham, NC, at Duke, for the entirety of the second
year, and earn a diploma from Duke University when their coursework was
complete.

Another aspect of the program’s appeal has been its unique curriculum; to
ensure solid foundational knowledge at the very outset, students take
requisite courses in introductory programming. An introductory course in
computer systems is also available to students who didn’t study computer
engineering as an undergraduate. With this foundation in place, industry-
oriented students can then build upon their specific interests in big data
analysis or software development.

Students in the software development track of the master’s program in ECE at
Duke take the same two foundational courses. The common focus has made it
possible for DKU to extend “visiting student” status to 30 Chinese students
who belong to the Duke ECE master’s program but whose travel has been
restricted because of the pandemic—more than doubling the size of the ECE
master’s student population.

**A Tale of Two Students**

Qin Sun and Wenchao Guo go about their daily lives as master’s students in
very different ways. Guo, a first-year MEng student, gets up at dawn and hits
the books before class. Sun, who is a visiting student from the Duke ECE
master’s program studying software development, tries to catch an extra hour
or two of sleep if she can. After class, while Guo recharges by hitting the
gym with his friends, Sun strolls around Dayu Bay, letting the beauty of the
lake there refresh her spirit before settling in at a coffee shop to review
her coursework.

> “I did not believe myself to be a beginner. But when I started to read _All
> of Programming_ I found that although I had learned some things in my
> undergraduate program, I could still gain so much from this course and this
> book."
>
> Qin Sun, DUKE ECE Master's student

The two students have a lot in common, though. They both want to build careers
as software engineers. Both cite the excellent reputations of their respective
schools as the top reason they accepted admission into their programs. And,
despite the fact the Sun would normally be strolling through Duke Gardens and
sipping espresso at Duke hangout Twinnie’s this year, both students are
currently living and studying in Kunshan, within the shared academic bubble
that the sister universities created to mitigate pandemic-related travel
restrictions. Sun was able to take two of her courses in person at DKU last
fall, while tuning in remotely to a third class on algorithms taught by Eric
Autry, a Duke assistant research professor of mathematics.

Another thing that Sun and Guo have in common is that they both love their
programs’ first-year curriculum design—though Sun, who studied ECE as an
undergraduate, was at first frustrated by the thought of slogging through an
introductory programming course. “I did not believe myself to be a beginner,”
she said. “But when I started to read All of Programming (by Duke ECE faculty
member Andrew Hilton) I found that although I had learned some things in my
undergraduate program, I could still gain so much from this course and this
book. It was very cool.”

Guo, who majored in mechanical engineering as an undergraduate, had already
tried to teach himself programming and knew there were gaps in his knowledge
that needed to be filled. “It wasn’t a very solid foundation,” he admitted.
“When I went to a technical interview I had some problems. But having taken
ECE 550 and 551, I can confidently say I’ve mastered something. The courses
have really helped me.”

> "Having taken ECE 550 and 551, I can confidently say I’ve mastered
> something."
>
> Wenchao Guo, Duke-DKU ECE Master’s student

And both Sun and Guo say they’re grateful for the opportunity to live with and
learn from some of their classmates this year. Both live in dormitories with
other graduate students, and Guo said that he and his suitemates made good use
of the meeting room on the second floor of their suite. “It was especially
helpful in 550, where we needed to cooperate in order to finish a
project—developing a Tetris game using Verilog. Using the whiteboard to show
our thoughts and generate solutions was very efficient. It’s a really valuable
part of living in a dormitory.”

Sun said the Tetris project, though difficult—she and her roommate worked on
it together, nearly nonstop, for more than a week—has been her favorite to
date. “I must say, I am very lucky to have the chance to spend my time in DKU
right now, and communicate with my classmates face to face,” said Sun.

Creating this opportunity for the visiting students was not without
challenges, said Duke ECE professor and director of the MEng at DKU, Xin Li.
Master’s students expect to gain international experience from studying
abroad, and that component of the program needed to be retooled to accommodate
current circumstances. “Many students will complete their required summer
internships at multi-national companies in China, exposing them to
environments with international corporate cultures,” he said.

Then, of course, there were the physical logistics of doubling the size of the
master’s cohort.

“Supporting all these students required additional instructors, teaching
assistants, classrooms, on-campus housing and other services, and the
leadership at Duke and DKU worked very efficiently to procure these resources
on time,” said Li, who noted that Duke and DKU have closely collaborated on
many aspects of the ECE program, including recruitment and curriculum
development, for several years now. “Our extraordinary offering of an on-
campus experience to Duke ECE students during the pandemic is one more outcome
of our fruitful collaboration,” he said.

Learn More about the Program

## Related News

February 11, 2020

### Duke Kunshan ECE Master’s Team Wins Dell Innovation Competition

June 18, 2018

### New Graduate Program in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke and
Duke Kunshan Universities Aims to Prepare Global Tech Leaders

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

