

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Construction Transforms Campus—and Students

January 21, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Three Duke Engineering undergraduates gained real-world engineering
experience—and helped make the Wilkinson Building a reality—as interns with
the Skanska construction team

Long before the Wilkinson Building opened its doors for classes this semester,
it was already advancing hands-on engineering education—at least for three
Duke Engineering students chosen for internships with the Skanska construction
team.

“I was a civil engineering major my entire career, but for the longest time I
didn’t know what I wanted to do after graduation,” said Sam Villalobos, who
graduated in 2019 with certificates in Latino studies and architecture added
to her engineering degree. “Construction was not something I had ever
considered, I think because of industry stereotypes, but after an information
session with Skanska I decided to apply anyway.”

The first of the trio of interns, Villalobos got the job and spent the summer
of 2018 creating a time-oriented 3D model of the Wilkinson Building’s
construction plan, handling requests for information forms, working with
subcontractors to make sure specifications were being met, and more. Next she
got another internship doing similar work for the new Hollows Quad residence
hall. And after graduation, she replaced the title “intern” with
“preconstruction engineer,” accepting a full-time position in Skanska’s Durham
office.

“There were just a lot of people I connected with on the field team and I felt
supported there, especially as a woman working in a male-dominated field,”
said Villalobos. “More young people should give it a chance. My experiences
have greatly helped me in my career, and Skanska is constantly working to
bring new technology into the field. It’s a very innovative time in the
industry.”

Her experience is not unique, nor is it by accident.

“Interns are the future of our business and it is a great way to recruit and
hire young talent,” said Paul Kelker, senior project manager for Skanska in
Durham. “I started with Skanska as an intern and we often hire our interns
after graduation. I feel students experience a firsthand ‘boots in the field’
and real-world view of our industry. We assign our interns with real-time
project challenges and provide the tools and supervision to allow them to
solve problems and create solutions.”

“Skanska has been a great local and national partner with Duke for more than a
decade, providing students with experiential opportunities, advising for
student organizations and participating in career preparation and mentoring
programs,” echoed Kirsten Shaw, director of corporate and industry relations
at Duke Engineering. “We enjoy strong support from our alumni at Skanska, and
Duke students benefit from their willingness to continue to engage with Duke
to help educate and train the next generation of engineers.”

Enthusiastic about her experience, Villalobos convinced K-Ville co-tenter
Javier Franco to apply for the same internship working on the Wilkinson
Building during the summer of 2020. Now a mechanical engineering junior with a
minor in energy engineering, Franco also hadn’t pictured himself on the
construction path before the internship.

But now he’s not so sure. Even with a design internship lined up with Boeing
next summer—more in line with what he’s always envisioned for his career—he
hasn’t ruled out a future in the construction industry.

Similar to Villalobos, Franco spent a summer working on the Wilkinson Building
with the Skanska mechanical, electrical, plumbing (MEP) team, making sure the
subcontractors were communicating with the design team and following their
specifications, and that construction was progressing on schedule.

Unlike Villalobos, he had to deal with the pandemic.

“COVID canceled a lot of my plans and moved classes online, so I was grateful
to still have this opportunity to do something in person and see the product
of my work,” said Franco. “On a construction site, there’s already so many
safety requirements to follow and equipment to wear, so masks and social
distancing were just one more aspect. People did a great job with the new
requirements and I felt safe being out on the job.”

Between Villalobos’s and Franco’s time in the internship role, it was filled
by Jamiee Williams, a current senior in civil engineering with a focus on
structures and a certificate in architectural engineering. Working during a
different phase of the building’s construction, she had a similar but slightly
different role to play with the MEP team. This included daily site walks for
safety and quality, project meetings with team members, creating simplified
drawings for the subcontractors to use, learning and teaching Procore project
management software, and more.

“This experience definitely gave me more clarity on what I want to achieve in
my future,” said Williams. “After graduation, I plan to rest for a bit and
then tackle a full-time position at a construction, civil consulting or
engineering firm.”

Besides providing more clarity on her career ambitions, Williams said her
experience at Skanska also helped her gain more insight on how construction
impacts individuals, whether or not the building was built for them. With the
Wilkinson Building, for example, the facility will impact the students,
specifically the engineering ones, by allowing more access to each other
through its collaborative spaces, and to professors with its centralized
location of offices and labs. But the building also may assist in the
provision of jobs, as most newly constructed spaces.

“It's more than just a building,” said Williams. “Construction impacts the
environment, the individuals building it, the individuals maintaining it, the
individuals using it and much more.”

For example, Williams cites the Wilkinson’s Building courtyard as a simple but
probably overlooked feature of the new building. Bordering the Bostock Library
and not too far from the Old Chemistry Building nor the Duke Hospital, the
Wilkinson Building is able to bridge the gap between Trinity and Pratt.

“More often than not, Pratt students are very isolated. Our classes all reside
in two or three engineering buildings, which all are in the back corner of
West Campus,” said Williams. “The courtyard encourages a bridge, as it offers
a space for everyone to relax, study or speak with friends. It is also a very
open space, which usually is a component that invites people in. Something as
‘simple’ as an additional courtyard space or the location of a building can
really influence the program!”

Beyond the obvious—and less obvious—impacts the Wilkinson Building holds for
Duke Engineering, all three former Skanska interns agree that their roles in
building it shaped their career ambitions and that there’s a great value to be
gained by working in the field.

“The experience taught me that if don’t know something, to ask questions,”
said Franco. “There’s so much that goes into any large project, and picking
the brains of people with years and years of experience in the industry is the
best way to learn. That’s an approach I’ll be taking when working with
airplanes as well.”

They also agree that the Wilkinson Building will be transformational for Duke
engineering students for decades to come, and they’re proud to have played a
part in its construction.

“The terrace at the top of the building has a perfect view of the chapel, and
it’s just a really nice place with natural light that students will enjoy
studying in,” said Villalobos. “One of the coolest parts about construction,
in general, is getting to see the tangible results of what you’ve worked on. I
have friends who live in the Hollows and who will now take classes in the
Wilkinson Building. Seeing all of these great new spaces reminds me of where I
started and makes me feel very proud.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

