

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Smart Material Switches Between Heating and Cooling in Minutes

October 28, 2021 | Ken Kingery

Deployed on roofs or facades, passive technology could greatly reduce HVAC
energy consumption in buildings

As anyone who has ever parked a car in the sun on a hot summer day knows,
glass windows are great at letting sunlight in but terrible at allowing heat
out.

Now, engineers at Duke University have developed smart window-like technology
that, with the flip of a switch, can alternate between harvesting heat from
sunlight and allowing an object to cool. The approach could be a boon for HVAC
savings, potentially cutting energy usage by nearly 20% in the United States
alone.

The electrochromic technology – material that changes color or opacity when
electricity is applied – is detailed in a paper published Oct. 14 in the
journal American Chemical Society Energy Letters.

“We have demonstrated the very first electrochromic device that can switch
between solar heating and radiative cooling,” said Po-Chun Hsu, assistant
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke. “Our
electrochromic tuning method does not have any moving parts and is
continuously tunable.”

Smart windows made from electrochromic glass are a relatively new technology
that use an electrochromic reaction to change glass from transparent to opaque
and back again in the blink of an eye. While there are many approaches to
creating this phenomenon, they all involve sandwiching an electrically
responsive material between two thin layers of electrodes and passing an
electric current between them. While this trick is difficult enough to achieve
for visible light, it becomes even more so when having to also consider mid-
infrared light (radiative heat).

In the paper, Hsu and his graduate student Chenxi Sui demonstrate a thin
device that interacts with both spectrums of light while switching between
passive heating and cooling modes. In the heating mode, the device darkens to
absorb sunlight and stop mid-infrared light from escaping. In the cooling
mode, the darkened window-like layer clears, simultaneously revealing a mirror
that reflects sunlight and allows mid-infrared light from behind the device to
dissipate. Because the mirror is never transparent to visible light, the
device would not replace windows in homes or offices, but it might be used on
other building surfaces.

“It’s very difficult to create materials that can function in both of these
regimes,” Hsu said. “Our device has one of the largest tuning ranges in
thermal radiation ever demonstrated.”

There were two major challenges to overcome to engineer such a device. The
first was creating electrode layers that conduct electricity and are
transparent to both visible light and thermal radiation. Most conductive
materials such as metals, graphite and some oxides don’t fit the bill, as
these two properties are at odds with one another, so Hsu and Sui engineered
their own.

The researchers started with a one-atom-thick layer of graphene, which they
showed is too thin to reflect or absorb either types of light. But it is also
not conductive enough to transmit the amount of electricity required for the
device to work at a large scale. To get around this limitation, Hsu and Sui
added a thin grid of gold on top of the graphene to act as a highway for
electricity. While this somewhat decreased the graphene’s ability to allow
light to pass through unimpeded, the tradeoff was small enough to be worth it.

The second challenge involved engineering a material that could go between the
two electrode layers and switch back and forth between absorbing light and
heat or allowing them to pass through. The researchers achieved this by
harnessing a phenomenon called plasmonics. When tiny, nanoscale metal
particles are placed just nanometers away from each other, they can
essentially trap specific wavelengths of light based on their size and
spacing. But in this case, the nanoparticles are randomly distributed in
clusters, leading to interactions with a wide range of wavelengths, which is
beneficial for efficiently trapping sunlight.

In the demonstration, electricity passing through the two electrodes causes
metal nanoparticles to form near the top electrode. Not only does this black
out the device, it causes the entire device to absorb and trap both visible
light and heat. And when the electrical flow is reversed, the nanoparticles
dissolve back into the liquid transparent electrolyte. The transition between
the two states takes a minute or two to complete.

“The device would spend many hours in one state or the other out in the real
world, so losing a couple minutes of efficiency during the transition is just
a drop in the bucket,” said Hsu.

There are still many challenges to making this technology useful in everyday
settings. The largest might be increasing the number of times the
nanoparticles can cycle between forming and disintegrating, as the prototype
was only able to perform a couple dozen transitions before losing efficiency.
There is also room for improvement in the solar reflectivity of the cooling
mode, which Hsu hopes can achieve sub-ambient cooling in the near future.

As the technology matures, however, there may be many applications for it. The
technology might be applied to exterior walls or roofs to help heat and cool
buildings while consuming very little energy. Providing the building envelopes
such a dynamic capability to use renewable resources for heating and cooling
could also open up the opportunity to use less of the construction materials
that have been a significant source of carbon emission for decades.

## Related News

August 10, 2021

### Addressing Climate Change with Energy Materials

December 02, 2020

### Nanomaterials Enable Passive Dual-Mode Heating and Cooling Device

September 07, 2018

### Po-Chun Hsu: Engineering Nanostructured Materials to Keep You Cool

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

