

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Smart Home Celebrates 10 Years

June 11, 2018 | by Stephen Schramm

Campus fixture spurs a decade of sustainability and technology ideas

_FromDuke Today  
_

When Duke alum Mark Younger visited the Duke Smart Home for its 10th
anniversary celebration in April, he expected to see current and former
student residents and a few faculty members.

But when the party also included people from the Faber Street neighborhood,
kids from youth programs, and members of the Durham community, he knew his
idea from more than a decade ago had grown into something bigger than he ever
pictured.

## TAKE A TOUR

Public tours are free and open to anyone interested in learning more about the
Duke Smart Home Program. Tours are given on selected Saturday afternoons
during the academic year. Private tours are generally given on weekday
afternoons.

REQUEST A TOUR

"It was great to see how it's evolved in ways I could have never predicted,"
said Younger, a 2003 Duke graduate who works in business development for
Apple. "To see that it is, in fact, still relevant to students, to the
community and what it cares about, is really encouraging."

In the 10 years since the first batch of 10 students took up residence in the
Home Depot Smart Home's five dorm rooms, the facility and the program that
surrounds it have lived up – and spread beyond – the vision of its founders.

Conceived as a living laboratory for students' technology ideas, the house at
1402 Faber St. has grown into a hub of sustainability and innovation for both
Duke students and the Durham community.

"It's a cool thing," said Younger, who stayed at Duke after he graduated to
serve as the home's first director. "These were angles we were thinking about
trying to launch back then, creating these kinds of connections between Duke
and Durham. They're being realized now."

The idea for the home began as an independent study topic Younger pursued
while a student in the Pratt School of Engineering. Part showpiece, part
living space, he envisioned as a place where current technological and
sustainability advances could be exhibited while helping students dream up the
next round of breakthroughs.

After nurturing the idea with former Pratt School of Engineering Dean Kristina
Johnson, it quickly picked up steam. Younger's concept got the blessing of
then-Duke President Richard H. Brodhead, received funding and material support
from donors and companies, and found a piece of Duke property near campus
where it could become a reality.

When it opened in the 2007-08 school year, the LEED Platinum 6,000-square foot
Home Depot Smart Home was filled with cutting edge technology and
sustainability features such as solar panels, a state-of-the-art media room
and two labs.

“It’s really a house of surprises,” said Duke senior and former resident
Emilia Chojkiewicz. “When I first toured it, I loved it.”

Not every original attention-grabbing features aged well. Some of the built-in
technological features – such as an LCD screen on the refrigerator – haven’t
proven as useful as once envisioned. Likewise, things such as the green roof
and sophisticated home automation system ended up being more attractive in
theory than in practice.

But other parts of the house design, such as its Energy Recovery Ventilator –
which cuts down on heating energy use by warming air entering the HVAC system
with exhaust – and the system that collects and filters rainwater for use in
laundry and toilets, ended up being ahead of their time.

“It has quite an interesting mix of high-tech and low-tech things,” said John
Board, associate professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and one of
the home’s faculty advisors. “Some features wouldn’t make sense for
residential construction, but others would.”

Still, the home’s impact has extended well beyond the technology within its
walls.

The Duke Smart Home Club, which is open to all students, offers grants,
resources and guidance for design projects. From efficient and inexpensive
shelters for refugee camps to wearable sensors to help monitor the strides of
runners, the program has become an incubator for students’ worthy ideas.

And as sustainability has become a more prominent Duke value during the past
decade, the house is a rallying point as residents often become active in
environmental causes on campus and in the community.

During the academic year, tours of the home’s green features draw interest
from people inside and outside of Duke. The home shares its property with the
Duke Community Garden, which allows students, faculty and staff to gain hands-
on experience with environmentally-friendly growing methods.

“I think it really says a lot about how a diverse group of people with a
common vision can take something and make it grow,” said Jim Gaston, Pratt
School of Engineering’s assistant dean for Advising & Undergraduate Research.
He’s been the program director for the home since 2008. “No one, not even Mark
(Younger) or myself can really predict how it’s going to turn out. That’s
really the fun of it, giving these smart, exceptional students the resources
they need to take their ideas and make something happen.”

## TAKE A TOUR

Public tours are free and open to anyone interested in learning more about the
Duke Smart Home Program. Tours are given on selected Saturday afternoons
during the academic year. Private tours are generally given on weekday
afternoons.

REQUEST A TOUR

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

