

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sondland/Durant Center for Entrepreneurship Provides Space for Duke Students
to Found, Develop New Ventures

August 23, 2021 | Mark Schreiner

Located in the new Wilkinson Building, the center will be the home of Duke
Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn)

In the spring of 2020, Duke Engineering student Max Sondland was still
processing disappointment from the cancellation of his senior project due to
COVID-19 when he got a call from his professor.

That call recruited Sondland to join a cross-campus team working quickly to
create technologies to help manage the care of COVID patients in Duke
University Hospital.

The project was a portable, negative pressure isolation chamber for patients.
Sondland’s contributions let him apply his engineering skills in a fast-
moving, entrepreneurial environment and on a socially important goal.

> “The gift from Gordon Sondland and Katy Durant provides crucial support for
> developing important hallmarks of the Duke Engineer, which include working
> on open-ended problems, working in teams, and possessing entrepreneurial
> drive and confidence."
>
> **Jeff Glass** | interim dean

“Max was so dedicated and excited by that project, which allowed him to use
the knowledge he had learned at Duke on a project with a very important
purpose,” said Katy Durant, Max’s mother, a member of the Pratt Board of
Visitors, and founder and managing director of Atlas Investments. “We came to
see that engineers are people with both vision and technical skills. That’s a
combination that can change the world for the better.”

Entrepreneurship, and Duke, run in the family. Daughter Lucy Sondland is a
2021 graduate of Duke’s Trinity College of Arts & Sciences, where she studied
decision sciences. Lucy has volunteered with the nonprofit Hands Free, founded
by Max, which has provided 3-D printers to schools and community centers.
She’s currently working in San Francisco as a valuations analyst at Prologis,
a global logistics real estate company.

Inspired by the deep emphasis placed on entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering,
the family, through the Gordon D. Sondland and Katherine J. Durant Foundation,
has made a $2 million gift to Duke Engineering to support entrepreneurship
education.

In recognition of their gift, the collaboration and education space for
student, faculty and staff founders in the new Wilkinson Building has been
named the Sondland/Durant Center for Entrepreneurship.

“The gift from Gordon Sondland and Katy Durant provides crucial support for
developing important hallmarks of the Duke Engineer, which include working on
open-ended problems, working in teams, and possessing entrepreneurial drive
and confidence,” said Jeff Glass, interim dean of the Pratt School of
Engineering. “Creative, ambitious and entrepreneurial thinking is essential to
solving societal challenges and improving quality of life for people
worldwide. Duke Engineering aspires to give our students and faculty the
opportunity to discover their inner entrepreneur through EngEn and the
Sondland/Durant Center.”

The Sondland/Durant Center is in the Garden Level of Duke’s new Wilkinson
Building. In addition to serving as a meeting place for the entrepreneurial
community at Pratt and Duke, it will be the home of Duke Engineering
Entrepreneurship (EngEn), an initiative that coordinates and provides
entrepreneurial education, advice and resources to faculty, staff and
students.

> “Engineers are people with both vision and technical skills. That’s a
> combination that can change the world for the better.”
>
> **Katy Durant** | founder and managing director, Atlas Investments and
> member, Pratt Board of Visitors

The central feature of the center is a large meeting room with movable
furniture—ideal for team meetings, coaching with Duke Engineering’s team of
entrepreneurs-in-residence and small-group teaching. In addition, smaller
glass-walled private meeting rooms surround that space. Each of these
“phonebooth” rooms includes a video display and videoconferencing technology.

“It is from these phonebooth rooms that we’ll leverage our global network of
Duke alumni,” said Bill Walker, Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurship,
and himself a Duke Engineering graduate and founder of several companies.
“Video conferencing will connect developing ventures with expertise, advice
and support from Silicon Valley to London to Singapore and beyond.”

Before graduating in 2020, Max Sondland completed Duke’s Innovation &
Entrepreneurship Certificate, overseen by the Duke Innovation &
Entrepreneurship Initiative, which co-sponsors several programs and works in
close collaboration with Duke EngEn.

Gordon Sondland, Max’s father, said he sees great potential for the
Sondland/Durant Center.

“It is an amazing thing, entrepreneurship: A need is identified, and a team
comes together,” said Gordon Sondland, founder of Provenance Hotels, a
hospitality development and management company headquartered in the Pacific
Northwest. “Then, an idea is created, something that wasn’t there yesterday.
And then the work starts on design, on what the market is, what are the
business considerations. Our vision is that this space fosters and encourages
those discussions at Duke Engineering.”

More about entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering »

## Related News

April 01, 2021

### The Wilkinson Building: Reimagining Engineering Education

September 23, 2020

### Duke Engineering’s New “EngEn” Accelerates the Impact of Tech-Based
Innovation

June 01, 2020

### Engineering Student Works with Team Designing Isolation Chamber for
COVID-19 Patients

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

