

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Thin Engineered Material Perfectly Redirects and Reflects Sound

April 10, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Metamaterial device controls transmission and reflection of acoustic waves

Metamaterials researchers at Duke University have demonstrated the design and
construction of a thin material that can control the redirection and
reflection of sound waves with almost perfect efficiency.

While many theoretical approaches to engineer such a device have been
proposed, they have struggled to simultaneously control both the transmission
and reflection of sound in exactly the desired manner, and none have been
experimentally demonstrated.

The new design is the first to demonstrate complete, near-perfect control of
sound waves and is quickly and easily fabricated using 3-D printers. The
results appear online April 9 in Nature Communications.

“Controlling the transmission and reflection of sound waves this way was a
theoretical concept that did not have a path to implementation—nobody knew how
to design a practical structure using these ideas,” said Steve Cummer,
professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke. “We solved both of
those problems. Not only did we figure out a way to design such a device, we
could also make one and test it. And lo and behold, it actually works.”

The new design uses a class of materials called metamaterials—artificial
materials that manipulate waves like light and sound through their structure
rather than their chemistry. For example, while this particular metamaterial
is made out of 3-D printed plastic, it’s not the properties of the plastic
that are important—it’s the shapes of the device’s features that allow it to
manipulate sound waves.

The metamaterial is made of a series of rows of four hollow columns. Each
column is nearly one-half of an inch on a side with a narrow opening cut down
the middle of one side, making it look somewhat like the world’s deepest
Ethernet port. While the device demonstrated in the paper is 1.6 inches tall
and nearly 3.5 feet long, its height and width are irrelevant—it could
theoretically stretch on forever in either direction.

The researchers control how the device manipulates sound through the width of
the channels between each row of columns and the size of the cavity inside
each individual column. Some columns are wide open while others are nearly
closed off.

To understand why, think of someone blowing air across the top of a glass
bottle—the pitch the bottle makes depends on the amount of liquid left inside
the bottle. Similarly, each column resonates at a different frequency
depending on how much of it is filled in with plastic.

As a sound wave travels through the device, each cavity resonates at its
prescribed frequency. This vibration not only affects the speed of the sound
wave but interacts with its neighboring cavities to tame both transmission and
reflection.

“Previous devices could shape and redirect sound waves by changing the speed
of different sections of the wave front, but there was always unwanted
scattering,” said Junfei Li, a doctoral student in Cummer’s laboratory and
first author of the paper. “You have to control both the phase and amplitude
of both the transmission and reflection of the wave to approach perfect
efficiencies.”

To make matters more complicated, the vibrating columns not only interact with
the sound wave, but also with their surrounding columns. Li needed to write an
‘evolutionary computer optimization program,’ to work through all the design
permutations.

The researchers feed the program the boundary conditions needed on each side
of the material to dictate how they want the outgoing and reflected waves to
behave. After trying a random set of design solutions, the program mixes
various combinations of the best solutions, introduces random “mutations,” and
then runs the numbers again. After many iterations, the program eventually
“evolves” a set of design parameters that provide the desired result.

In the paper, Cummer, Li and colleagues demonstrate that one such set of
solutions can redirect a sound wave coming straight at the metamaterial to a
sharp 60-degree outgoing angle with an efficiency of 96 percent. Previous
devices would have been lucky to achieve 60 percent efficiencies under such
conditions. While this particular setup was designed to control a sound wave
at 3,000 Hertz—a very high pitch not dissimilar to getting a “ringing in your
ears”—the metamaterials could be scaled to affect almost any wavelength of
sound.

The researchers and their collaborators are next planning to transfer these
ideas to the manipulation of sound waves in water for applications such as
sonar, although there aren’t any ideas for applications in air. At least not
yet.

“When talking about waves, I often fall back on the analogue of an optical
lens,” said Cummer. “If you tried to make really thin eyeglasses using the
same approaches that these sorts of devices have been using for sound, they
would stink. This demonstration now allows us to manipulate sound waves
extremely accurately, like a lens for sound that would be way better than
previously possible.”

This work was supported by the Office of Naval Research (N00014-13-1-0631) and
the National Science Foundation (1641084).

Learn More about Metamaterials at Duke.

CITATION: “Systematic design and experimental demonstration of bianisotropic
metasurfaces for scattering-free manipulation of acoustic wavefronts.” Junfei
Li, Chen Shen, Ana Diaz-Rubio, Sergei A. Tretyakov and Steven A. Cummer.
Nature Communications, 2018. DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-03778-9

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

