

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Recovering Color Images from Scattered Light

July 29, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

New technique non-invasively separates spectral bands from scattered light

Engineers at Duke University have developed a method for extracting a color
image from a single exposure of light scattered through a mostly opaque
material. The technique has applications in a wide range of fields from
healthcare to astronomy.

The study appeared online on July 9 in the journal Optica.

“Others have been able to reconstruct color images from scattered light, but
those methods had to sacrifice spatial resolution or required prior
characterization of the scatterer in advance, which frequently isn’t
possible,” said Michael Gehm, associate professor of electrical and computer
engineering at Duke. “But our approach avoids all those issues.”

When light is scattered as it passes through a translucent material, the
emerging pattern of “speckle” looks as random as static on a television screen
with no signal. But it isn’t random. Because the light coming from one point
of an object travels a path very similar to that of the light coming from an
adjacent point, the speckle pattern from each looks very much the same, just
shifted slightly.

With enough images, astronomers used to use this “memory effect” phenomenon to
create clearer images of the heavens through a turbulent atmosphere, as long
as the objects being imaged were sufficiently compact.

While the technique fell out of favor with the development of adaptive optics,
which do the same job by using adjustable mirrors to compensate for the
scattering, it has recently became popular once again. Because modern cameras
can record hundreds of millions of pixels at a time, only a single exposure is
needed to make the statistics work.

While this approach can reconstruct a scattered image, it has limitations in
the realm of color. The speckle patterns created by different wavelengths are
typically impossible to disentangle from one another.

The new memory effect imaging approach developed by the authors Xiaohan Li, a
PhD student in Gehm’s lab, Joel Greenberg, associate research professor of
electrical and computer engineering, and Gehm breaks through this limitation.

The trick is to use a coded aperture followed by a prism. A coded aperture is
basically a filter that allows light to pass through some areas but not others
in a specific pattern. After the speckle is “stamped” by the coded aperture,
it passes through a prism that causes different frequencies of light to spread
out from each other.

This causes the pattern from the coded aperture to shift slightly in relation
to the image being captured by the detector. And the amount it shifts is
directly related to the color of light passing through.

“This shift is small compared to the overall size of what’s being imaged, and
because our detector is not sensitive to color, it creates a messy
combination,” said Li. “But the shift is enough to give our algorithm a
toehold to tease the individual speckle patterns apart from each color, and
from that we can figure out what the object looks like for each color.”

The researchers show that, by focusing on five spectral channels corresponding
to violet, green and three shades of red, the technique can reconstruct a
letter “H” full of nuanced pinks, yellows and blues. Outside of this difficult
proof-of-principle, the researchers believe their approach could find
applications in fields such as astronomy and healthcare.

In astronomy, the color content of the light coming from astronomical
phenomena contains valuable information about its chemical composition, and
speckle is often created as light is distorted by the atmosphere. Similarly in
healthcare, color can tell researchers something about the molecular
composition of what’s being imaged, or it can be used to identify biomolecules
that have been tagged with fluorescent markers.

“There are a lot of applications where people really want to know how much
energy there is in specific spectral bands emitted from objects located behind
opaque occlusions,” said Greenberg. “We’ve shown that this approach can
accomplish this goal across the visible spectrum. Knowing the aperture pattern
and how much it shifts as a function of wavelength provides the key we need to
disentangle the messy sum into separate channels.”

This research was supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
(HR0011-16-C-0027).

CITATION: “Single shot multi-spectral imaging through a thin scatterer,”
Xiaohan Li, Joel A. Greenberg, and Michael E. Gehm. Optica, July, 2019. DOI:
10.1364/OPTICA.6.000864

## Related News

September 27, 2018

### Decoding Multiple Frames from a Single, Scattered Exposure

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

