

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Student Entrepreneurs Gather for Inspiration and Community at Program Launch

March 10, 2020

The Student Founders Program is a Duke-wide activity group for students
interested in launching their own ventures

Students sat clustered around conference tables in the Blue Devil Tower at
Wallace Wade Stadium—it was the weekend, and it was early, yet the students
buzzed with energy and talked about issues they care most about and the
problems they are working to solve.

The 55 students are the inaugural cohort of the Duke Student Founders Program,
a university-wide activity group for those interested in launching their own
ventures.

The program, a partnership of the Duke Entrepreneurship & Innovation
Initiative (I&E) and Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn) at Duke's Pratt
School of Engineering, is the first at Duke to bring all student innovators,
entrepreneurs, and founders under one umbrella. The program provides
education, mentoring, resources and community—including an option to
participate in a summer accelerator.

> Program staff offered some simple advice: have fun

Kicking off the Feb. 29 event, program staff offered some simple advice: have
fun.

"If you’re not having fun, there’s really no reason to do this," said Steven
McClelland, E'95, who is an executive-in-residence at the Pratt School of
Engineering. He returned to Duke Engineering after founding his own companies
and working for Yahoo! and Twitter.

In creating the program, the staff was inspired by student-athletes—who
balance student responsibilities with practice and travel. They worked to
provide entrepreneurial students throughout Duke with opportunities to realize
their vision—along with a community, like an athletic team, that would provide
structure, training, and inspiration.

Student Founders Program participants attend weekly practice sessions where
they learn and address specific issues they’re experiencing with their
ventures—but those sessions are smaller, and this was a chance to meet
everyone in the program.

Read More

## Related News

June 21, 2018

### The Next Big Thing: A Conversation with Steve McClelland and Bill Walker

April 19, 2018

### The Undergraduate Entrepreneur

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

