

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Student Experience: Research Intensives

May 5, 2022

Gifted with curiosity and an independent nature? The Pratt Research Fellows
program might be right up your alley

At Duke, undergraduate students in engineering have the unique opportunity to
pursue intensive research projects and work with renowned faculty over three
semesters, beginning in their third or even second year, through the Pratt
Research Fellows program.

Each fellow works on a research project of their choosing, under the guidance
of a faculty advisor. By graduation, Pratt Research Fellows know their way
around a lab and understand how academic research works. It’s an extremely
valuable experience for those who have their sights set on graduate degree
programs and those considering research and development positions in industry.

"The fellowship was huge for me with regards to pursuing a PhD,” said Becca
Lau, a member of the Class of 2022, who will begin doctoral study at Stanford
University in the fall. “My experience as a Pratt Fellow made me realize that
research is something I see in my future.”

> “My experience as a Pratt Fellow made me realize that research is something
> I see in my future.”
>
> **Becca Lau '22** | Mechanical engineering & German

Pratt Fellows, while undergraduates, have been known to publish scholarly
papers, make presentations at noteworthy conferences, and even seek patent
protection for inventions they create because of their research. Duke
Engineering graduates 20 or more Pratt Research Fellows each year.

Any motivated undergraduate engineering student can apply noted Assistant Dean
for Advising and Outreach Carmen Rawls, the program’s director.

“This program provides research opportunities to undergraduate students across
all technical disciplines researched and taught within the Pratt School of
Engineering,” said Rawls. “The research projects range from developing
technology that ensures a sustainable environment for future generations to
advancing treatments in medical fields.”

In these student profiles, these Pratt Research Fellows of the Class of 2022
explain their research experiences and share what they gained:

  * Yi Chen, who advanced a novel drive train for electric vehicles
  * Becca Lau, who conducted research using simulation techniques that are
    being applied in materials science to create new photovoltaics, fuel cells
    and batteries
  * Katherine Li, whose research focused on selecting bacterial strains that
    can remove heavy-metal pollution from the environment
  * Michael Tian, whose project explored sodium channel proteins in heart
    cells

Study Engineering at Duke

## Related News

April 27, 2022 | Bass Connections

### Senior Spotlight: Reflections from the Duke Class of 2022

April 20, 2022 | Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative

### Duke Mechanical Engineering Student Brings Disability Representation to
the Runway

April 01, 2022

### The Class of 2022’s First Bond

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

