

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

#  Students Code Alternate Realities

August 13, 2020

This summer, two Code+ teams sent visitors to Madagascar and Cameron Stadium,
with the help of augmented reality

It’s been months since the Duke Basketball Museum welcomed fans through its
doors, and months since a Duke Lemur Center tour guide showed a ring-tailed
lemur to an excited kid. It may be many more months until these spaces reopen
to the public. But thanks to Duke’s Code+ program and its ambitious and
hardworking students, both spaces may be able to offer a new kind of access to
visitors in the future—through augmented reality.

Code+ is a 10-week program for undergraduate students, run by Duke’s Office of
Information Technology (OIT). Code+ focuses on projects in software and
product development, and project leads are professional IT developers like
Hugh Thomas, an OIT consultant and adjunct faculty member who mentored two
teams incorporating augmented reality into their apps this summer.

Both teams knocked it out of the park.

“It’s almost frightening how talented everybody is,” said Ryan Craig, the Duke
Athletics director of digital strategy, at the final presentation of the Code+
team that partnered with his unit to develop an app for the Duke Basketball
Museum.

> Using the app, Duke Basketball Museum visitors can step into giant
> basketball shoes, shoot hoops virtually, and scan their environment to
> search for objects that have additional information attached.

Using the app, Duke Basketball Museum visitors can step into giant basketball
shoes, shoot hoops virtually, and scan their environment to search for objects
that have additional information attached—a static photo of a game-winning
shot might trigger a video highlight reel to play on top of it, for example.
In the future, when the museum reopens, the team will be able to set jerseys
and trophies as triggers that recap iconic moments in Duke basketball history.

Users can even explore Cameron Indoor Stadium without being physically being
present—a very helpful feature in the era of COVID-19 closures. To accomplish
this, the team first created a large spherical framework around the user, then
added images to the inside of the sphere to make them feel like they were
right in the middle of the action.

The Code+ team working with the Duke Lemur Center took a similar approach,
surrounding its users with flora and fauna native to Madagascar, where lemurs
are found in the wild. And, because lemurs themselves can be shy and difficult
to spot, the team added an AR ring-tailed lemur that leaps across the screen.
Since no prepackaged animations of lemurs were available, the team made its
animation from scratch, creating the lemur’s skeleton, mapping its range of
motion, and using a process called UV mapping—pulling all the layers apart and
painstakingly hand-coloring each in Photoshop before packaging them together
again—to give it a lifelike appearance.

> The Duke Lemur Center team made its animation from scratch, creating the
> lemur’s skeleton, mapping its range of motion, and using a process called UV
> mapping—pulling all the layers apart and painstakingly hand-coloring each in
> Photoshop before packaging them together again—to give it a lifelike
> appearance.

The team’s work was partially supported by a National Center for Women and
Information Technology (NCWIT) Academic Alliance Seed Fund Award.

“Getting into the world of augmented reality, understanding the new set of
tools and the pipeline of software required to create the assets for this
application, was a huge part of the work the students did this summer,” said
Thomas.

Both AR teams met daily in a single Zoom room and were able to share what they
were learning, speeding the process for one another. They were also able to
tap into the expertise of Duke electrical and computer engineering (ECE)
faculty member Maria Gorlatova and PhD student Tim Scargill, who work on
augmented reality applications.

“Throughout the process we worked really closely with the ECE department—Maria
and Tim provided us with a lot of material and helpful information in creating
a lot of the AR content,” said Ryleigh Byrne ECE/CS ‘23. Scargill shared some
hard-to-find assets—a 3D model of a map of Madagascar, as well as some lemur
sound effects— that the team incorporated into its augmented reality landscape
feature. Gorlatova offered her advice and thoughts on the field, as well.
“Maria was a great support and hosted a coffee chat with the girls on our team
and the augmented reality basketball museum team,” said Byrne. “She provided
us with insight into her career and research in engineering and computer
science, as well.”

Craig said that Duke Athletics plans to integrate parts of the Duke Basketball
Museum app into its existing platform in the future. “I’m excited about what
this could bring to our official athletics platform, and to our fans,” he
said. His sentiment was echoed by the Duke Lemur Center’s Director of
Research, Erin Ehmke. “The potential for what could be provided this way is
huge,” she said.

More News from Duke Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

