

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Sunny Summer of Engineering for High Schoolers

August 20, 2019

Local high school students gain lab experience through DukeREP, a summer
outreach program launched in Duke BME

By the time summer rolls around, most high school students are ready to leave
the confines of the classroom to go on family vacations or to save up money
with a part-time job. That wasn’t the case for a select group of students who
instead spent their summer at Duke University coding cochlear implants,
studying models of rare diseases, and programming LED arrays to help image
cancerous tissue.

These research opportunities were possible thanks to the Duke Research in
Engineering Program, also called DukeREP––a seven-week summer experience for
high school students interested in studying engineering and science in
college. Created to help increase diversity in STEM, the program matches
students from Durham Public Schools with labs across Duke, where they work on
projects with PhD student and faculty mentors to get a glimpse of life as an
engineering student.

“While DukeREP is open to all high school juniors and seniors in our
community, we prioritize the selection of underrepresented groups in STEM and
students from underprivileged backgrounds, as opportunities like this are
often disproportionately accessible to individuals from well-connected
families,” says Hala El-Nahal, a PhD student in BME and co-founder and
president of DukeREP. “Because high school students are at a critical stage in
selecting their career paths, we hope to encourage them to pursue higher
education by preparing them for the college application process, and to
promote their interest in STEM and encourage them to pursue careers in STEM by
immersing them in laboratory research for seven weeks.”

When the program was launched in the summer of 2018, DukeREP was concentrated
in Duke’s biomedical engineering department. But as the program has grown,
students have also been able to work with mentors in other departments,
including electrical and computer engineering and mechanical engineering and
materials science.

“DukeREP was an amazing opportunity to experience what it’s like to do real
research in a lab, and to learn about what it takes to work in a more
professional setting,” says DukeREP student Felix Liu, who spent his summer
studying different treatment strategies for lesions within coronary arteries.
“I really enjoyed the freedom I had with my project. Engineering has always
enticed me, and this program was a great opportunity to be immersed in the
research side of engineering before college.”

In addition to their research projects, DukeREP students participated in
weekly social activities and seminars, where they were able to learn more
about how to adjust to life in college. They also attended courses on college
advising, professional development, common application essay writing and
resume writing workshops, and listened to presentations from professors and
PhD students about a variety of topics across engineering. At the end of the
program, the students shared their research at an engineering poster session
to help practice presentation skills.

“This program introduced me to both geometrical optics and coding, and that
led me to sign up for more science courses at my school this upcoming year,”
says Elizabeth Teka, who worked on a project involving efficient data transfer
in the Litchinitser lab. “I’ve been interested in engineering since middle
school, but this program introduced me to different departments of
engineering, and after attending a seminar with Dr. Tantum I’m seriously
considering studying machine learning.”

“Biomedical engineering was already attractive to me because it feels like a
spectrum of opportunities are available to you, where you can work on
innovative tools while doing biological research in a lab,” says Marwa Bakri,
who completed her project in the Ramanujam lab and received first place at the
DukeREP poster session. “Being an engineer always seemed difficult or out of
reach, but this program definitely made it seem like more of a possibility. I
don’t know what I’ll be studying in college yet, but it was helpful to see how
interdisciplinary engineering, specifically BME, can be.”

To learn more about the DukeREP program, visit:
https://sites.duke.edu/dukerep/

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

