

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Supercomputers Join Search for 'Cheapium'

January 3, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Duke Engineers Use Brute Force Computing to Find New Materials

In the search for cheaper materials that mimic their purer, more expensive
counterparts, researchers are abandoning hunches and intuition for theoretical
models and pure computing power.

In a new study, researchers from Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering
used computational methods to identify dozens of platinum-group alloys that
were previously unknown to science but could prove beneficial in a wide range
of applications.

Platinum is used to transform toxic fumes leaving a car’s engine into more
benign gasses, to produce high octane gasoline, plastics and synthetic
rubbers, and to fight the spread of cancerous tumors. But as anyone who has
ever shopped for an engagement ring knows, platinum ain’t cheap.

If just one of the compounds identified in the new study is comparable in
performance but easier on the wallet, it would be a boon to many industries
worldwide as well as the environment.

“We’re looking at the properties of ‘expensium’ and trying to develop
‘cheapium,’” said Stefano Curtarolo, director of Duke’s Center for Materials
Genomics. “We’re trying to automate the discovery of new materials and use our
system to go further faster.”

The research is part of the Materials Genome Initiative launched by President
Barack Obama in 2011. The initiative’s goal is to support centers, groups and
researchers in accelerating the pace of discovery and deployment of advanced
material systems crucial to achieving global competitiveness in the 21st
century. The study appears in the Dec. 30 edition of the American Physical
Society journal Physics and is highlighted in a Viewpoint article in the same
issue.

The identification of the new platinum-group compounds hinges on databases and
algorithms that Curtarolo and his group have spent years developing. Using
theories about how atoms interact to model chemical structures from the ground
up, Curtarolo and his group screened thousands of potential materials for high
probabilities of stability. After nearly 40,000 calculations, the results
identified 37 new binary alloys in the platinum-group metals, which include
osmium, iridium ruthenium, rhodium, platinum and palladium.

These metals are prized for their catalytic properties, resistance to chemical
corrosion and performance in high-temperature environments, among other
properties. Commercial applications for the group include electrical
components, corrosion-resistance apparatus, fuel cells, chemotherapy and
dentistry. And because of their worldwide scarcity, each metal fetches a
premium price.

Now it is up to experimentalists to produce these new materials and discover
their physical properties. Previous studies have shown that Curtarolo’s
methods are highly accurate in generating recipes for new, stable compounds,
but they don’t provide much information about their behaviors.

“The compounds that we find are almost always possible to create,” said
Curtarolo. “However, we don’t always know if they are useful. In other words,
there are plenty of needles in the haystack; a few of those needles are gold,
but most are worthless iron.”

In addition to identifying unknown alloys, the study also provides detailed
structural data on known materials. For example, there are indications that
some may be structurally unstable at low temperatures. This isn’t readily
apparent because creating such materials is difficult, requiring high
temperatures or pressures and very long equilibration processes.

“We hope providing a list of targets will help identify new compounds much
faster and more cheaply,” said Curtarolo. “Physically going through these
potential combinations just to find the targets would take 200 to 300 graduate
students five years. As it is, characterizing the targets we identified should
keep the experimentalists busy for 20.”

This research was supported by the DOD-ONR (Grants No. N00014-13-1-0635, No.
N00014-11-1 0136, and No. N00014-09-1-0921) and the NSF (Grant No.
DMR-0908753).

# # #

"Comprehensive Search for New Phases and Compounds in Binary Alloy Systems
Based on Platinum-Group Metals, Using a Computational First-Principles
Approach," Hart, G.L.W., Curtarolo, S., Massalski, T.B., and Levy, O. Phys.
Rev. X, 2013, 3(4):041035.  
DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevX.3.041035

An open access copy of this article is freely available from Duke University
for those who do not have access to the original journal.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

