

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Symposium on Data Optimization Under Uncertainty Draws National Crowd

April 27, 2017

Duke's inaugural “Optimization Under Uncertainty and Data-Driven Science and
Engineering” symposium gathered more than 80 leading experts to address
mathematical and computational aspects of pressing problems

Optimization, uncertainty, and data are prevalent throughout our daily lives
and are poised to become even more important as the information age unfolds.

To help spur advances in these increasingly important fields, Duke hosted its
inaugural “Optimization Under Uncertainty and Data-Driven Science and
Engineering” symposium at the Washington Duke Inn on April 13-14, 2017. For
two days, more than 80 leading experts gathered to address mathematical and
computational aspects of pressing problems including the smart grid,
autonomous vehicles, energy and the environment, and using data to help in the
fight against sex trafficking, among other topics.

Aimed at fostering collaboration between researchers in academia, government
and industry, the symposium attracted representatives of companies like Intel,
AT&T and The Aerospace Corporation. Speakers from leading universities and the
national laboratories across the country were also on hand for the event.

“Duke has a growing number of faculty and wealth of expertise in this area of
research,” said Wilkins Aquino, professor of civil and environmental
engineering at Duke, who organized the symposium along with Robert Calderbank
(Electrical & Computer Engineering/Computer Science), Jianfeng Lu (Math),
Michael Zavlanos (Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science) and Drew Kouri
(Sandia National Laboratories). “We wanted to highlight our emerging presence
on a national stage while also connecting to some of the biggest names in the
field to start new collaborations. I think we were successful on all fronts.”

The symposium was sponsored by the Information Initiative at Duke, the
Statistical and Applied Mathematical Sciences Institute (SAMSI), the Pratt
School of Engineering and the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

