

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cell-Filled Pouch Creates Temporary “Chimeras” to Treat Disease

October 11, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Device protects human liver cells producing critical biomolecules for six
months in mice

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have devised a pouch designed to
create temporary chimeras – mixed species -- to treat diseases. In a proof-of-
concept study, the device protected transplanted human liver cells from mice’s
immune systems for six months while they produced crucial biomolecules.

The demonstration offers a potential path toward treating human diseases such
as hemophilia and type 1 diabetes with immunologically incompatible cells —
from either humans or animals — without needing to suppress the patient’s
immune system.

The results appeared online October 7 in the journal Advanced Functional
Materials.

“There’s a growing body of work investigating the potential of transplanting
cells to treat a litany of human diseases,” said Shyni Varghese, professor of
biomedical engineering at Duke University. “But there will always be a
mismatch between the number of cells needed and what is available, so we
decided to push the boundaries a bit to see if we can do cross-species
implantation.”

> “Showing that this device can support cross-species cells makes it much more
> likely that it will work in any same-species scenario. But there’s always
> going to be a shortage of human cells available for these kinds of
> therapies, so one could envision, for example, using pig cells to treat
> human diabetes as well.”
>
> shyni varghese

The idea behind cell transplantation therapy is to transplant an “island” of
healthy cells that can provide functions of the compromised organ. The
transplanted cells can act as a sort of drug store to deliver key
biomolecules, such as insulin to treat type 1 diabetes or factor VII or factor
IX to treat bleeding disorders. Such cell transplantation can also bridge the
gap until an organ transplant is possible.

As with any biological transplant, however, the patient’s immune system poses
a threat to the foreign cells. In organ transplantations, close biological
matches between donors and recipients combined with drugs to suppress the
patient’s immune system can overcome the body’s defenses. But when considering
cell transplantation, scientists are researching other ways of protecting
them.

Varghese and her lab group are pursuing the idea of using a biomedical device
to create a barrier between the cells and the host’s immune system that is
porous enough to allow the cells within the device to take in nutrients and
oxygen and to send out therapeutic biomolecules. However, it is a delicate
balancing act that can easily collapse.

“Most of the time when you try to hide the cells from the immune system, they
don’t get enough food or oxygen and just die,” said Varghese, who also holds
appointments in mechanical engineering and materials science and orthopedics.
“Getting a device’s wall just right in terms of thickness, permeability and
interactions with the host tissue is an engineering problem, and it’s one that
we wanted to see if we could solve.”

In the study, Varghese and a research team of graduate students and
postdoctoral researchers engineered their device out of chitosan — a sugar
derived from the exoskeleton of shellfish. Chitosan is a biocompatible
material that has been used extensively in biomedical applications. It’s also
sticky, which allows the researchers to form two layers and stick them
together to form a pouch. It can be easily molded into different shapes with
walls of various thickness.

But chitosan is not enough to do the job on its own. One of the challenges
similar devices have been unable to overcome is the barrage of sticky proteins
that the immune system throws at these types of foreign objects. Over time,
these cells form a fibrous tissue that envelops the device, thwarting the
transmission of nutrients and therapeutic biomolecules.

To get around this defense, the Varghese lab added another layer to the
outside of the device consisting of flexible bristles made out of
dodecanedioic acid (DDA) molecules. Commonly used in applications such as
corrosion inhibitors, surfactants and engineering plastics like nylon, these
DDA “brushes” form a protective layer around the pouch, protecting it from
fibrous tissue buildup.

“This creates a buffer zone between the pouch and the body that’s still thin
enough for the molecules we need to get in and out,” Varghese said.

The researchers used this approach to create a cell-protecting pouch about
half the size of a packet of sweetener commonly found at the local coffee shop
that is capable of holding millions of cells. They filled the pouches with
human liver cells and implanted them in mice with fully functional immune
systems.

By tracking the amount of human albumin — a protein secreted by liver cells —
in the mice’s blood, the researchers found that the pouches held up for at
least six months. They believe the pouches might have lasted for more time,
but the amount of albumin was declining enough at six months that they did not
want to risk the study.

Moving forward, Varghese wants to test the device in larger animals to see how
well it fares. She also plans to optimize the device to improve it further and
test to see if it could be used to treat type 1 diabetes.

“Showing that this device can support cross-species cells makes it much more
likely that it will work in any same-species scenario,” Varghese said. “But
there’s always going to be a shortage of human cells available for these kinds
of therapies, so one could envision, for example, using pig cells to treat
human diabetes as well.”

This research was supported by the National Institute of Arthritis and
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases of the National Institutes of Health (R01
AR071552).

CITATION: “Molecularly Tailored Interface for Long-Term Xenogeneic Cell
Transplantation,” Sajeesh Kumar Madhurakkat Perikamana, Nailah Seale, Jiaul
Hoque, Ji Hyun Ryu, Vardhman Kumar, Yuru Vernon Shih, Shyni Varghese. Advanced
Functional Materials, 07 October 2021. DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202108221

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

