

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tick Collection? There's a Bot for That!

February 2, 2016

Originally posted by the Duke Global Health Institute

Collecting ticks for infectious disease research—currently a manual process
involving close contact with the ticks—is risky business, putting researchers
in danger of contracting some of the very diseases they’re studying. But last
year, Duke global health and medicine professor Greg Gray had an idea: could a
robot do the job?

When Gray contacted the Duke Robotics Club to explore this idea, junior
electrical engineering majors Andrew Buie and Logan Rooper jumped on the
opportunity to make it a reality.

“I was excited about this project,” Buie said, “because, unlike many other
undergraduate engineering projects we could have pursued, we’d be able to
fully develop a useful product—one that would have clear and immediate
research benefits—within a year.”

Rooper was drawn to the project for more personal reasons: “I had a friend in
high school who had Lyme disease and I saw how badly it affected him,” he
said. “If we can help researchers study ticks and parasites more safely,
they’ll be able to come up with solutions faster.”

**Current Collection Process Exposes Researchers**

To date, the main method for gathering ticks has been to sweep a felt-like
fabric over the ground. Ticks are attracted to humans’ heat and carbon
dioxide, so they hop on the fabric. After completing the collection, the
researcher rolls up the piece of cloth and transports the ticks to a lab. The
problem is that the ticks—which carry viruses, bacteria and parasites—often
jump on the researcher, too.

**Enter the Tickbot**

Last summer, Buie and Rooper, co-presidents of the robotics club, accompanied
Gray to the local Duke Forest to study the tick collection process. Based on
what they saw, the students came up with a proposal for a robot that would
emulate what the researchers were doing but minimize exposure to ticks.

Buie and Rooper then recruited a classmate, Austin McKee, to their team. What
started as an extracurricular project soon evolved into an independent study.

The robot—which has since been dubbed “the tickbot” by the team—is a small
vehicle with two mountain bike wheels in the front and a swivel wheel in the
back. A sheet of felt-like fabric hangs off the back, and the cart emits heat
and carbon dioxide to attract the tick to the cloth. Once the ticks have been
collected, the fabric can be rolled into its cylinder and safely transported
to a lab.

The robot features high-power motors and a differential drive system that
enable the cart to travel on uneven terrain, which is critical because ticks
are typically collected in the woods. It’s also equipped with a remotely-
viewable video camera, so the person at the controls can see exactly where the
robot is headed. The robot can be controlled remotely from up to one kilometer
away.

**Project to Contribute to One Health Research at Duke**

Gray, a member of the One Health team in the Duke Global Health Institute,
says that this project embodies a primary One Health goal—to incorporate
interdisciplinary fields of science in a collaborative effort. One Health is a
research approach that encompasses animal, human and environmental health.

“Today we have these difficult problems in public health that cannot be
approached by just one discipline, so we need to work across disciplines in
teams,” Gray said.

Gray emphasized the significance of this project, noting that the safe study
of ticks and their roles in infectious disease is critical to public health.

What's Next for the Tickbot?

At an independent study presentation in December, the students demonstrated
the robot prototype, which was field-tested for the first time in the fall.
This spring, they’ll be meeting with entomologists to refine the design,
adding the carbon dioxide emitter and video camera, and completing additional
field tests. They hope to wrap up development of a working prototype by the
end of the year, but they’re committed to staying the course till the project
is complete. Eventually, they said, the robot may be used to collect other
insects and arachnids for research.

**We Need Your Help: Name That Bot!**

The tick-collecting robot needs a name! From now until Monday, February 15,
we’re running a naming contest. To learn more and submit a name suggestion,
visit our website. The winner will be selected by “Team Tickbot”—Gray and the
students developing the robot—and will receive a DGHI and Duke One Health gift
pack. The winner will be announced on our social media outlets on Friday,
February 19.

**Learn More**

  * Enter the naming contest
  * See more photos of “Team Tickbot” and the prototype development process
  * Visit the Duke One Health website

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

