

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tony Jun Huang: Developing Lab-on-a-Chip Technologies to Improve Health Care

April 28, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Tony Jun Huang brings a wide array of microfluidic and lab-
on-a-chip technologies to Duke’s proven pipeline for developing biomedical
devices

Tony Jun Huang has joined the faculty of the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science in Duke University’s Pratt School of
Engineering. A leader in the fields of microfluidics, acoustofluidics and lab-
on-a-chip technologies, Huang explores ways of using sound waves to precisely
manipulate and detect fluids and particles—such as cells, DNAs, RNAs and
proteins—inside fluids. His goal is to develop these technologies into new
diagnoses and treatments for various diseases.

Huang joins Duke from Pennsylvania State University, where he a professor and
the Huck Distinguished Chair of the Department of Engineering Science and
Mechanics. Prior to joining the PSU’s faculty in 2005, he earned his
bachelor’s and master’s degrees in mechanical engineering from China’s Xi’an
Jiao Tong University and his PhD in mechanical engineering from the University
of California, Los Angeles.

“Tony is a leader in his field, and I know he will build strong collaborations
in both our department and the medical school,” said Ken Gall, chair of the
mechanical engineering and materials science department and co-director of
MEDx at Duke. “He is an enthusiastic and easy going colleague and extremely
innovative researcher. We are all very excited to have Tony join the
department.”

Huang’s research fuses acoustics, fluid mechanics and micro/nano engineering
to develop technologies that address challenges in biological studies, medical
diagnostics and therapeutics. For example, sound waves coming from opposite
directions can sandwich cells in fluidic chambers and act like a sort of
tweezers. By manipulating the strength, direction and amplitude of the waves,
Huang and his group can move trapped cells anywhere in the chamber in a matter
of milliseconds.

While Huang has had great success developing these basic technologies in the
past decade, he says he is looking forward to moving to Duke to translate them
into devices held by a doctor’s hands.

“Duke has one of the best medical schools in the world. And it is exciting and
extremely beneficial for me that Duke’s engineering and medical schools are
within walking distance,” said Huang, noting not just the schools’ proximity
but new avenues for encouraging collaboration between them such as Duke MEDx.
“Together with Duke medical doctors, we can develop tools that lead to
significantly more accurate diagnosis and higher-quality treatment than
existing technologies.”

For example, Huang is using sound waves to separate abnormal cells from the
billions of healthy cells flowing through our veins, which could soon allow
doctors to spot cancer a few years earlier than is currently possible. The
same technology can also safely separate fetal cells from maternal blood to
look for signs of disease as early as the fourth week of pregnancy—twice as
early as is currently possible.

Other work deals with automating the handling and analysis of patients’ saliva
and sputum to create an all-in-one, point-of-care diagnostic tool for asthma.
This tool will also be critical in the development of personalized treatments
for asthma, tuberculosis and other respiratory diseases and infections.

“Diagnostics comprises only three-to-five percent of healthcare spending, yet
it impacts about 70 percent of healthcare decisions.” said Huang. “Therefore,
if we can build simple, low-cost and point-of-care diagnostic tools that
achieve better sensitivity and accuracy than existing technologies, it will
lead to drastic improvement of the overall healthcare outcome worldwide.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

