

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Printed Sensors Monitor Tire Wear in Real Time

June 14, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Carbon nanotubes bring tire wear monitoring into the car

Electrical engineers at Duke University have invented an inexpensive printed
sensor that can monitor the tread of car tires in real time, warning drivers
when the rubber meeting the road has grown dangerously thin.

If adopted, the device will increase safety, improve vehicle performance and
reduce fuel consumption. The group hopes that the tire wear sensor will be the
first of many that could disrupt the $2 billion tire and wheel control sensor
market.

In collaboration with Fetch Automotive Design Group, the Duke researchers have
demonstrated a design using metallic carbon nanotubes (tiny cylinders of
carbon atoms just one-billionth of a meter in diameter) that can track
millimeter-scale changes in tread depth with 99 percent accuracy. With two
patents pending, the researchers are in the process of establishing industry
collaborations to bring the technology to a tire near you.

"With all of the technology and sensors that are in today's cars, it's kind of
crazy to think that there's almost no data being gathered from the only part
of the vehicle that is actually touching the road," said Aaron Franklin,
associate professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke. "Our tire
tread sensor is the perfect marriage between high-end technology and a simple
solution."

In a paper published June 9 in IEEE Sensors Journal, Franklin and his
colleagues flesh out their sensor design.

The technology relies on the well-understood mechanics of how electric fields
interact with metallic conductors. The core of the sensor is formed by placing
two small, electrically conductive electrodes very close to each other. By
applying an oscillating electrical voltage to one and grounding the other, an
electric field forms between the electrodes.

While most of this electric field passes directly between the two electrodes,
some of the field arcs between them. When a material is placed on top of the
electrodes, it interferes with this so-called "fringing field." By measuring
this interference through the electrical response of the grounded electrode,
it is possible to determine the thickness of the material covering the sensor.

While there is a limit to how thick a material this setup can detect, it is
more than enough to encompass the several millimeters of tread found in
today's tires. And with evidence of sub-millimeter resolution, the technology
could easily tell drivers when it's time to buy a new set of tires or give
information about uneven and often dangerous tire wear by connecting many
sensors in a grid to cover the width of the tire.

Tests also proved that the metal mesh embedded within tires does not disrupt
the operation of the new sensors.

"When we pitch this idea to industry experts, they say to each other, 'Why
haven't we tried that before?'" said Franklin. "It seems so obvious once you
see it, but that's the way it is with most good inventions."

While the sensor could be made from a variety of materials and methods, the
paper explains how the researchers optimized performance by exploring
different variables from sensor size and structure to substrate and ink
materials. The best results were obtained by printing electrodes made of
metallic carbon nanotubes on a flexible polyimide film. Besides providing the
best results, the metallic carbon nanotubes are durable enough to survive the
harsh environment inside a tire.

The sensors can be printed on most anything using an aerosol jet printer --
even on the inside of the tires themselves. And, while it is not yet certain
that direct printing will be the best manufacturing approach, whatever
approach is ultimately used, Franklin said the sensors should cost far less
than a penny apiece once they're being made in quantity.

Franklin's group also wants to explore other automotive applications for the
printed sensors, such as keeping tabs on the thickness of brake pads or the
air pressure within tires. This is consistent with a key trend in the
automotive sector toward using embedded nanosensors.

Other tire tracking products have recently hit the market. For example, the
tire company Pirelli recently unveiled a system to electronically track each
tire -- when it was installed, how many miles it has gone, when it was last
serviced, etc. -- and use an algorithm to estimate its wear and tear. While
not the same thing as actively, physically measuring tire tread, it shows that
the market is there for this type of information.

But the technology isn't limited to cars.

"This setup could be used with just about anything that isn't metallic or too
thick," said Franklin. "Right now we're focusing on tires, but really anything
you'd rather not have to cut apart to determine its thickness could be
monitored by this technology in real time."

"Noninvasive Material Thickness Detection by Aerosol Jet Printed Sensors
Enhanced Through Metallic Carbon Nanotube Ink," Joseph B. Andrews, Changyong
Cao, Martin A. Brooke and Aaron D. Franklin. IEEE Sensors Journal, June 5,
2017. DOI: 10.1109/JSEN.2017.2710085

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

