

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Triangle Universities Establish State-of-the-Art Characterization Facility

May 20, 2013

Scientists across North Carolina will now be able to probe the mysteries of
very tiny particles, polymers, and surfaces for applications ranging from
biomedicine to polymer science

Thanks to an $850,000 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF), a
consortium of universities – Duke, North Carolina State and University of
North Carolina-Chapel Hill – has created the Triangle Small Angle X-Ray
Scattering (SAXS) facility at Duke.

“Before the establishment of the Triangle SAXS facility, researchers had to
travel to sites across the country to collect data on their samples,” said
Stefan Zauscher, Duke professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science and principal investigator. “Easy access to SAXS instruments will
further promote research in soft matter science in the Research Triangle area
and stimulate cross-disciplinary research.”

SAXS instruments provide scientists with unique information about the size,
shape, distribution, and order of materials and surfaces at the nanoscale.
SAXS provides useful information for a broad range of disciplines, including
materials science, structural biology, polymer and colloidal chemistry, and
chemical and biomedical engineering.

“The establishment of the Triangle SAXS facility reflects the combined efforts
of three universities whose inter-institutional cooperation was essential for
sharing a significant amount of the cost,” said Robert Rose, associate
professor of Biochemistry at NC State and co-principal investigator.

The facility is available to any scientist in the area. In all, 18 consortium
researchers contributed research summaries in support of the NSF grant: eight
from Duke, seven from NCS State, and six from UNC.

UNC’s Sergei Sheiko, co-principal investigator and professor of Chemistry,
added, “This cooperation also represents a successful model for bringing
expensive, state-of-the-art instrumentation to the Research Triangle, where
the instruments will serve the greater Research Triangle community for
research and education.”

The facility is housed in Duke’s Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility
(SMIF), a state-of-the-art home to clean rooms, electron microscopy, atomic
force microcopy and other advanced capabilities. SMIF director Mark Walters is
also a co-principal investigator of the NSF grant.

The new facility will include two state-of-the art SAXS instruments, capable
of analyzing a wide range of particle sizes and sample configurations. One
instrument, the SAXSess MC2 built by Anton Paar, is optimal for solution
samples including biological complexes. The other instrument, the GANESHA
300XL from SAXSlab, is a highly flexible instrument capable of collecting data
from a wide range of particle sizes and sample configurations, including from
surfaces and non-homogeneous samples.

“The range of samples that can be analyzed by these two instruments will make
the Triangle SAXS facility one of the finest in the country, outside of
similar facilities at the national laboratories,” Zauscher said.

Seventy percent of the facility was funded by the NSF, with the remaining
portion split among the three participating institutions. At Duke, the
Research Triangle Materials Research Science and Education Center (RT-MRSEC)
also contributed to the purchase.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

