

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Triangle Soft Matter Workshop Continues to Grow

May 16, 2019

Annual workshop has helped establish NC's Research Triangle Region as a
destination for soft matter research

Eleven years ago, world-renowned soft matter expert Michael Rubinstein—now a
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science, biomedical
engineering, chemistry and physics at Duke University—invited colleagues to
convene at the first annual Triangle Soft Matter Workshop, where they would
present new ideas, meet new collaborators, and generally strengthen and
support the field as it grew.

As it begins its second decade, it’s safe to call the workshop a roaring
success. The honor of hosting the annual workshop rotates among UNC-Chapel
Hill, NC State University, and Duke, and the team effort has helped establish
the Research Triangle region of North Carolina as a global center for soft
matter research. This year’s workshop, hosted by Duke, was the largest to
date, with over 150 attendees.

> “Every year, you see cross-germination of ideas and new collaborative
> possibilities coming out of this workshop in ways that drive important
> science forward.”
>
> **Stephen Craig**  
>  William T. Miller Professor of Chemistry at Duke

“The growing attendance of the Triangle Soft Matter Workshop is due to both
the success of this forum and to increasing activity in soft matter at
Triangle universities,” said Rubinstein, who also led the establishment of the
interdisciplinary Duke Soft Matter Center in 2018.

Rubinstein organized the event alongside Duke chemistry professor Stephen
Craig and Duke mechanical engineering and materials science professor Stefan
Zauscher.

The three curated an agenda brimming with top names in soft matter: UNC’s
Ronit Freeman, Duke’s Kevin Welsher, and NC State’s Ashley Brown presented
their research, while the University of Minnesota’s Timothy Lodge gave the
plenary lecture, titled “Equilibration and Dynamics in Block Copolymer
Micelles.”

Lodge is spending part of a sabbatical year at Duke, where he is working
closely with Rubinstein. "My own group does experiments, and we have generated
a body of interesting results on the dynamics of self-assembly," said Lodge.
"Professor Rubinstein and I have been working on ideas that might be able to
explain some of our most puzzling experimental results."

Students and postdocs were invited to present two-minute “sound bites” of
their own research at the workshop, and to follow up in greater detail via a
poster presentation and competition in the atrium of Fitzpatrick CIEMAS. More
than eighty students participated—including many from Duke’s recently
established University Program in Materials Science and Engineering, as well
as from UNC and NC State. UNC’s Andrew Keith took first place for his poster,
titled “Brush-like Architectures: Programmable Design of Physical Properties.”

“The sound bites are the most interesting and diverse sessions of the
workshop,” said Rubinstein. “They showcase the whole spectrum of soft matter
research at local universities.”

Craig stressed that the field of soft matter isn’t just for engineers. “What
always strikes me about this workshop is how interdisciplinary the field of
soft matter is, and how groups from Chemistry, Physics, and Engineering are
together tackling important problems ranging from biophysics to new classes of
adaptive synthetic materials,” said Craig. “Every year, you see cross-
germination of ideas and new collaborative possibilities coming out of this
workshop in ways that drive important science forward.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

