

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Trivedi Wins IEEE Reliability Society Lifetime Achievement Award

December 14, 2020

Longtime faculty member recognized for sustained contributions to the methods,
tools and education in the reliability assessment of hardware-software systems

Kishor Trivedi, the Hudson Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering at Duke University, has been the recipient of the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Reliability Society’s Lifetime
Achievement Award. One of the highest recognitions that a society of the IEEE
can bestow, the award was bestowed to Trivedi in recognition of his “sustained
contributions to the methods, tools and education in the reliability
assessment of hardware-software systems.”

For the past 45 years, Trivedi has been a fixture at Duke, first in the
computer science department before moving to the electrical and computer
engineering department in 1991. Asked to teach a course on Probability for
Computer Science and Engineering when he first arrived on campus, he soon
discovered that no textbook for the subject existed. So he wrote his own.

_Probability and Statistics with Reliability, Queuing and Computer Science
Applications_ was published in 1982, followed by a full and complete revision
in 2002 and a comprehensive manual containing 300 problem solutions soon
after. That textbook tackled a large swath of territory on a fairly basic
level; its revision remains widely used today.

He has also published and edited several other books: _Performance and
Reliability Analysis of Computer Systems_ , published by Kluwer Academic
Publishers (1996), _Queueing Networks & Markov Chains_, John Wiley (1998 and
2006), _Reliability and Availability Engineering_ , Cambridge University Press
(2017), and _Handbook of Software Aging and Rejuvenation: Fundamentals,
Methods, Applications, and Future Directions,_ World Scientific, (2020).

In further evidence of the lasting importance of Trivedi’s contributions, he
was recently given a Test of Time Award at the 2020 IEEE/IFIP International
Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks for research carefully
classifying different types of software faults in JPL/NASA missions. These
finding have led to a significant amount of research and a novel way to
develop fault-tolerant software based on what is now known as environmental
diversity as opposed to the traditional design diversity. Two of his papers
were also recently recognized as some of the most influential work in the past
30 years of the International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering
(ISSRE): “Analysis of software rejuvenation using Markov Regenerative
Stochastic Petri Net,” 1995, and “A methodology for detection and estimation
of software aging,” 1998.

Trivedi is a Life Fellow of the IEEE and a Golden Core Member of the IEEE
Computer Society. He is the recipient of IEEE Computer Society’s Technical
Achievement Award for his research on software aging and rejuvenation. He was
recently specially appointed a professor at Hiroshima University, where he is
working with colleagues on uncertainty propagation through dependability
models.

At the IEEE Reliability Society’s Annual Reliability, Availability and
Maintainability Symposium (RAMS) 2021, besides the Lifetime Achievement Award,
Trivedi will also receive the Alan O. Plait Award for Tutorial Excellence for
his tutorial presented at RAMS 2020. A special one-day workshop will also be
held in Trivedi’s honor at RAMS 2021.

## Related News

September 05, 2017

### Leading Computer Reliability for 40 Years

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

