

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke ECE Hosts Talk and Tour for Triangle Women in STEM Interns

July 30, 2018

Triangle Women in STEM (Tri WiSTEM) interns are treated to an evening of
networking, information and advice

The prospect of attending graduate school has never looked better for Triangle
Women in STEM (Tri WiSTEM) interns that attended the Duke Pratt School of
Engineering Talk & Tour July 19. The evening included networking, a Mini-
Bootcamp on graduate school and graduate fellowships, a panel discussion with
female graduate students, a delicious dinner spread and a tour of the Duke
Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility for nanotechnology (SMIF).

Many prospective students don’t realize that PhD students in STEM fields are
paid while pursuing a PhD, and tuition and fees are free. To bridge that
knowledge gap, the Mini-Bootcamp focused on what graduate school is all about.
It covered master’s and PhD degrees, actions for attendees to take to position
for a great graduate school application, and the inside scoop on how to apply
for prestigious fellowships such as the National Science Foundation Graduate
Research Fellowship.

Presenters at the Mini-Bootcamp included Drew Hilton, a professor of the
practice in Duke’s Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE);
Johnna Frierson, director of Duke Engineering’s Office of Diversity and
Inclusion; and Nan Jokerst, professor in ECE, associate dean for strategic
initiatives in the Pratt School of Engineering, executive director of Duke’s
SMIF and a Tri WiSTEM Steering Committee member.

A lively panel discussion with six female PhD students in engineering and
computer science engaged the audience by responding to attendee questions
about their experiences at Duke University. Dinner with the graduate students
and female faculty in engineering and computer science prompted further
conversations, followed by a group photo.

Two takeaway nuggets of advice from the evening were to consider the areas of
study the school’s faculty are currently working on and whether the department
and research team have a culture of support, particularly for female students.
Thank you to all the speakers and graduate students for your words of wisdom,
and thank you to Nan Jokerst and Alex Naseree of Duke ECE for organizing the
Talk & Tour!

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

