

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cancer Drug Helps Treat Tuberculosis by Restoring Leaky Blood Vessels

April 26, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

FDA-approved drug that helps vascular integrity also allows antibiotics to
infiltrate hard-to-reach tuberculosis granulomas in mice

Biomedical engineers have discovered an unlikely potential ally in the global
fight against tuberculosis—an FDA-approved drug originally designed to treat
cancer.

Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are naturally produced by animals to break
down connective tissue for a wide array of biological processes such as wound
repair, growth and tissue development. There are many diseases, however, that
hijack these enzymes for their own purposes.

An increased production of MMPs has been strongly linked to the growth and
metastasis of tumors. Many drugs have been created to inhibit MMP production,
but have proven largely unsuccessful as standalone treatments to slow cancer
progression in clinical trials.

In a new study, biomedical engineers at Duke University show that these drugs
may be more useful in treating tuberculosis. The results show that several MMP
inhibitors, including the FDA-approved drug Marimastat, improve the structural
integrity of leaky blood vessels in tuberculosis granulomas, allowing
antibiotics to penetrate them and attack the tuberculosis pathogens in mice
more efficiently.

The study appears online on April 26 in the journal PLOS Pathogens.

“Scientists have been focusing on the antibiotics used against tuberculosis
for a long time,” said Xiling Shen, associate professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke University. “We thought maybe it was time to take a new
angle by targeting the host’s response to the disease instead.”

By estimates of the World Health Organization, more than one-quarter of the
world’s population is currently infected with tuberculosis. Although only 5 to
10 percent will become symptomatic and infectious, the disease kills more than
1.25 million people every year, making it one of the world’s deadliest
infectious diseases. Tuberculosis infection is also the leading cause of
HIV/AIDS patient deaths.

When the bacterium _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ enters the lungs, the immune
system attempts to contain it by forming a lesion around it called a
granuloma. Unfortunately, the bacteria have adapted to make these prisons more
like homes.

“Tuberculosis is one of humanity’s oldest pathogens and has even been found in
ancient Egyptian mummies,” said Shen. “It has evolved a very clever strategy
to survive. While these granulomas are meant to contain and destroy
tuberculosis, the bacteria upregulates host MMPs to remodel the interior of
the granuloma, essentially renovating their new homes to gain protection from
the immune system and antibiotics.”

The _M. tuberculosis_ can lie dormant within these granulomas for decades
until something triggers them to become active. Once this happens, the disease
is once again contagious, killing roughly 15 percent of those who reach this
stage. While scientists aren’t exactly sure why or how this happens, illnesses
that affect the immune system such as HIV are often the root cause.

Thanks to the protection of the granulomas, tuberculosis is extremely
difficult to kill even in its active stage, requiring a six-to-nine month
regimen of antibiotics. And because many people struggle to stick with
treatment for that long—especially after symptoms have subsided—strains
resistant to multiple types of antibiotics are emerging. This is part of the
reason why it is so important for researchers to find faster ways of curing
the disease.

A cancer specialist by training, Shen was working on a Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency (DARPA) project when he realized that the way
tuberculosis manipulates the granuloma is very similar to the way tumors grow
and metastasize. Knowing that MMP inhibitors had been shown to strengthen
vasculature in tumors so as to better deliver cancer medications, he thought
perhaps they would do the same trick in tuberculosis granulomas.

Shen teamed up with a tuberculosis expert, Dr. David Russell at Cornell
University and showed that a number of different small molecule MMP inhibitors
increased the effectiveness of frontline anti-tuberculosis drugs in killing
the disease in mouse models. They demonstrated that this is accomplished by
improving blood vessel health in the granulomas, allowing more of the
antibiotics to be delivered to and retained in the lungs. Given the promise of
the approach, Shen hopes to test the idea in primates next, which could
eventually lead to human clinical studies.

This work was supported by the Department of Defense Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency (19-1091726, 21-1073697, W911NF-15-1-0609) and the National
Institutes of Health (R35GM122465).

“Matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors enhance the efficacy of frontline drugs
against Mycobacterium tuberculosis.” Yitian Xu, Lihua Wang, Matthew D.
Zimmerman, Kai-Yuan Chen, Lu Huang, Dah-Jiun Fu, Firat Kaya, Nikolai Rakhilin,
Evgeniya V. Nazarova, Pengcheng Bu, Veronique Dartois, David G. Russell,
Xiling Shen. PLOS Pathog 14(4), 2018. DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1006974

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

