

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Brain Tumor 'Pied Piper' Device Gains Breakthrough Status

February 6, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Dean Ravi Bellamkonda's team's 'Pied Piper' lures aggressive brain tumor cells
out of the patient

A biomedical tool that tricks aggressive brain tumors such as glioblastoma
into migrating into an external container rather than throughout the brain has
been designated a “Breakthrough Device” by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA).

Dubbed the Tumor Monorail, the device mimics the physical properties of the
brain’s white matter to entice aggressive tumors to migrate toward the
exterior of the brain, where the migrating cells can be collected and removed.
The purpose of the device is not to destroy the tumor, but to halt its lethal
spread, making the disease more of a condition to manage than a death
sentence.

Breakthrough designations from the FDA aim to expedite the development and
review of drugs, diagnostics and devices aimed at life-threatening or
irreversibly debilitating conditions. While the designation does not mean that
the device has been approved for clinical use, it does provide a partnership
with the FDA that can speed development, assessment and review.

The Tumor Monorail first made headlines in 2014 in an initial exploratory
study published in Nature Materials and led by researchers at Georgia Tech and
Emory University that showed  the concept was effective in rat models. A
prototype device successfully played Pied Piper to glioblastoma cells,
enticing them to migrate toward a repository filled with a toxic gel. The
result was that the tumors’ spread slowed and they shrank by more than 90
percent.

“This was the first demonstration that you can engineer migration inside the
body and move a tumor from point A to point B by design,” said Ravi
Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke
University, who began the research while at Georgia Tech. “It was also the
first demonstration of bringing the tumor to your drug rather than your drug
going into the brain and killing valuable cells.”

The device works by mimicking the physical structures of the brain’s white
matter where it travels through a narrow opening connecting the left and right
hemispheres—a popular growth track for glioblastoma. There are no chemicals or
enzymes involved, and there are a wide variety of materials that the device
could be made from.

“The tumor monorail device is a true game-changer in how we think about
treating brain tumors,” said Barun Brahma, a neurosurgeon at Children’s
Healthcare of Atlanta, who has been a member of the research team since the
beginning. “There are many tumors that are considered inoperable due to the
location of the tumor or the frailty of the patient. This device affords
clinicians the ability to surgically treat these tumors with a minimal
approach.”

Since the initial study, the results in rats have been successfully reproduced
multiple times by the research group, which has also been busy scaling up and
redesigning the device for potential human use.

Because the material itself isn’t as important as its physical structure, the
researchers have swapped a material into their design known to last a long
time and be well tolerated by the human body. In its current iteration, the
device resembles a long, thin catheter tube with a small reservoir at the end
that sits on top of the skull under the scalp. The researchers have also done
away with the toxic gel contained in the reservoir to simplify FDA approval.

“What’s most important is that the tumor is spreading in a controlled way
through our device to a reservoir, and away from the mother tumor, rather than
through the healthy brain tissue,” said Nassir Mokarram, a research faculty
member in the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke University and
leader of the project. “The toxic gel inside the reservoir appears to only
play a secondary role, though additional preclinical studies will help make
this clear. Simply by being far away from the mother tumor, the cells are more
susceptible to dying anyway, and a neurosurgeon can access the reservoir to
empty it when needed.”

The researchers are now working to prove the device is safe for human trials—a
task that is easier said than done.

“The most exciting part about this designation is that it gives us the
opportunity to look at the FDA as a partner rather than a reviewer,” said
Mokarram. “The task before us is to prove that the device does not pose a risk
to human patients, which is an extremely complicated process. With direct
access to the FDA reviewers, we can get more efficient, faster feedback on our
experimental ideas to make sure we’re addressing all of their concerns from
the very start.”

With the help of the FDA, the research group hopes to solidify their
experimental plans within the next several weeks so that they can begin their
next study as soon as possible. They are working toward gaining FDA approval
for human trials by the end of 2019.

The project was made possible by initial support from Ian’s Friends
Foundation, a nonprofit in Atlanta focused on curing pediatric brain tumors,
and further support by the National Cancer Institute’s EUREKA program and the
Marcus Foundation of Atlanta.

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

