

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tuning NASA's Newest Weather Satellite to Improve Forecasts

March 5, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineers taking Earth-based measurements to calibrate NASA’s newest
weather satellite

After Atlanta was paralyzed by a rare snowstorm, many fingers were pointed
assigning blame for the resulting traffic catastrophe, including at least one
aimed at imprecise weather predictions.

“The governor of Georgia said that they thought the heavier snowfall was going
to be south of the city,” said Ana Barros, professor of civil and
environmental engineering at Duke University. “But there’s a lot of
uncertainty in those predictions because we don’t really understand the fine
details of complex storm systems. We don’t know how to model these processes
at high spatial resolutions.”

This summer, Barros and her colleagues will conduct the first field mission
with a new satellite system intended to fill in those knowledge gaps. On Feb.
27, NASA and JAXA—Japan’s national space agency—launched the core satellite
for their new Global Precipitation Measurement (GPM) mission from Japan's
Tanegashima Space Center.

GPM is an international satellite mission designed to provide more detailed
measurements of rain and snow over a wider range of the globe than previously
possible. Not only will the satellite have more precise instrumentation than
its predecessors; its orbit will allow researchers to study rainfall at higher
latitudes at higher spatial and temporal resolutions. The data it collects
will help unify measurements made by partner satellites and add to science’s
understanding of how weather works.

Before meteorologists can start plugging the new data in to their weather
models, however, researchers have to make sure they can accurately interpret
the GPM measurements. The upcoming field mission, based in the mountains of
western North Carolina and led by Duke engineers, will help achieve this by
comparing satellite readings with those taken simultaneously from multiple
aircraft and ground sensors. Besides calibrating the new satellite, the
campaign will help improve how precipitation processes are represented in
forecast calculations. It will also provide data and inform models used to
address critical water management issues in mountainous regions.

“The campaign that we are running will obtain very high-resolution data of
precipitation and the microphysics of storm systems in mountainous regions,”
said Barros. “The end goal is to improve weather predictions and climate
models.”

Between May 1 and June 15, measurements will be taken on the ground and by two
aircraft flying at different altitudes to compare with the newly launched GPM
satellite. The data collected will help calibrate the new satellite’s sensors
for the rest of its long-term mission to study complex weather phenomena.

The campaign will also be the first of its kind in mountainous regions that,
according to Barros, are home to complex rain patterns that are one of the
biggest challenges in remote sensing. The Great Smoky Mountains get their name
from microdroplet rain patterns that are difficult for satellites to probe
with their sensors.

After the initial field campaign ends on June 15, the two participating
aircraft will move on to other missions, but Barros and her team will continue
taking data from the new satellite and the extensive ground sensor network
they have built until the effective end of the hurricane season.

“When we first started in 2007, there were only two rain gauges reliable for
these kinds of studies above 3,200 feet in the whole eastern United States,”
said Barros. “Now, for this experiment, we have more than 100. It’s taken a
long time to get here, but we’ve had a lot of help along the way.

“We’ve been working with a handful of non-governmental organizations along
with water authorities, planning commissions," Barros said, "and literally
dozens of independent entities, including the Haywood Community College, the
Haywood Electric Membership Cooperation, Wilson College, UNC-Asheville, Maggie
Valley Water District, Pisgah Astronomical Research Institute, ABTech, and
even local landowners and landmarks, like Joey’s Pancake House, who have been
very supportive of our field work.”

This work is supported by NASA's Precipitation Measurement Missions Program.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

