

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Turning Disordered Proteins into Stable, ‘Super-Sticky’ Materials

October 29, 2019

Improved protein control could lead to wound-healing gels and other
applications

Biomedical engineers from Duke University have demonstrated that they can
create stable materials from engineered disordered proteins by altering the
environmental triggers that cause them to undergo phase transitions.

This discovery shines a light on previously unexplored behaviors of disordered
proteins and allows researchers to create novel materials for applications in
drug delivery, tissue engineering, regenerative medicine and biotechnology.

The research appeared online on Oct. 18 in Science Advances.

Proteins function by folding into 3-D shapes that interact with different
biomolecular structures. Researchers previously believed that proteins needed
to fold into a specific fixed shape in order to function, but in the last two
decades, engineers seeking to create novel materials for biomedical
applications have turned their attention to intrinsically disordered proteins,
called IDPs, which dynamically shift among a wide array of structures.

IDPs are especially useful for biomedical purposes because they can undergo
phase transitions –– changing from a liquid to a gel, for example, or a
soluble to an insoluble state, and back again –– in response to environmental
triggers, like changes in temperature. This ability has made IDPs a go-to tool
for long-term drug delivery, as IDPs can be injected in liquid form into the
body and then solidify into a gel depot that slowly releases medication.

But while their flexible structure makes IDPs useful in a variety of
applications, researchers previously thought that this flexibility limited the
stability of the resulting materials.

In their recent paper, Ashutosh Chilkoti, the chair of Duke Biomedical
Engineering, and Felipe Garcia Quiroz, a Ph.D. graduate of the Chilkoti Lab
who is a postdoctoral fellow at Rockefeller University, demonstrate that they
can precisely tune the stability of IDP-based materials by controlling how
quickly IDPs associate and dissociate in response to environmental cues.

“Unlike well-folded proteins, conventional IDPs have a hard time shielding
different parts of their structures from each other,” Quiroz said. “So as IDPs
become more abundant in a solution they begin to collide and clash frequently,
with some of their exposed structures weakly sticking together and rapidly
breaking apart.”

If the rate of association and dissociation is equal, the IDP is in
equilibrium and it doesn’t undergo any behavior change. But if something in
the environment changes, such as temperature, then segments of the IDPs stick
together for longer periods of time, and they break apart with less frequency,
resulting in a phase transition from a soluble to an insoluble state that can
be harnessed to build materials.

Upon removing the environmental stimulus, however, conventional IDPs go back
to exhibiting very weak associations, and the previously assembled materials
fall apart.

In their new work, Chilkoti and Quiroz created materials using newly-designed
IDPs that change phase at different temperatures, and demonstrated that upon
phase separation, these IDPs are knocked out of their usual equilibrium
behavior. This triggers a process known as hysteresis, in which IDPs will
stick together even if the environmental trigger of the initial phase
transition is removed.

“What is exciting about our new work is that we’ve shown that we can dial the
degree of hysteresis to identify designs in which these proteins will stick
together readily, and once those associations emerge, it becomes very
difficult to break them,” Quiroz said. “IDPs are typically thought as being
weakly sticky, but we now show that it’s possible to design super sticky IDPs,
which become very stable building blocks.”

“That super stickiness only emerges after we apply an environmental trigger,
so they otherwise behave as regular IDPs and we don’t have to worry about
their stickiness as we handle them,” Quiroz said. “From a materials
perspective, many of our favorite materials are those that are easy to
prepare, but can rapidly mature to a state that is highly stable and difficult
to disrupt. Cement is a great example of this.”

By showing that they could make a highly stable material out of IDPs, Quiroz
said, they could build on earlier work with IDPs in fields like regenerative
medicine. For example, in their liquid form, IDPs can flow into a wound
cavity, adopt its shape and then phase into a gel to provide structural
support and recruit key cells for tissue repair.

Because current IDP-based materials lack stability, their effect is short-
lived as they erode fairly quickly, but this new approach could make IDPs a
good source of new materials for wound-healing.

“IDPs have had a set of known characteristics, and we have been working within
that range of characteristics to explore potential biomedical applications for
the last two decades,” Quiroz said. “But now we essentially have new tools to
play with, and that allows us to be more creative. Our discovery adds
complexity to what we are able to do with IDP-based materials for applications
spanning materials science and biology, which is exciting.”

Ashutosh Chilkoti and Felipe Garcia Quiroz are inventors on a patent related
to this work. The authors declare no other competing interests.

This work was funded by the National Institutes of Health through grant (R01
GM061232) and MIRA (R35GM127042), the National Science Foundation through a
DMREF grant (NSF-DMR-1729671), and by the NSF through the Research Triangle
MRSEC (NSF DMR-11-21107). Quiroz holds a Career Award at the Scientific
Interface from BWF.

CITATION: "Intrinsically Disordered Proteins Access a Range of Hysteretic
Phase Separation Behaviors," Felipe Garcia Quiroz, Nan K. Li, Stefan Roberts,
Patrick Weber, Michael Dzuricky, Isaac Weitzhandler, Yaroslava G. Yingling,
Ashutosh Chilkoti. Science Advances, October 28, 2019. DOI:
10.1126/sciadv.aax5177

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

