

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Twelve Graduate Students Earn Competitive BME Fellowships

August 30, 2019

Second-year graduate students in biomedical engineering received named
fellowships to help support their research

PhD students in Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering pursue
innovative research during their time at Duke. To support their work, Duke BME
has recently provided 12 graduate students with named fellowships available
through the BME Second-Year Doctoral Fellowship Program.

Of the 12 fellowships provided by the department, eight were named in honor of
BME emeritus faculty who played a significant role in supporting the growth
and vision of Duke BME. The remaining fellowships include the Robert Hochmuth
Fellowship, in honor of Robert M Hochmuth, emeritus professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science, the Frederick Thurstone Fellowship, named
after Frederick Thurstone, an early pioneer of 3D ultrasound and a former
faculty member in Duke BME, the William “Monty” Reichert Fellowship, created
to celebrate Reichert and his numerous contributions to Duke BME, and the
Wanda Krassowska Fellowship, named after Wanda K. Neu, a professor in BME who
specializes in drug delivery and gene therapy research.

“We’re thrilled to use this fellowship to support graduate students as they
pursue challenging research in biomedical engineering at Duke,” says Joel
Collier, the director of graduate studies in Duke BME. “This year we had a
very strong pool of applicants, so the selection process was very
competitive.”

The fellowships provided funding to support one year of PhD students’ research
during their time in Duke BME. To apply for the competitive opportunity,
candidates had to submit a one-page research description and a letter of
recommendation from their advisor, as well as show a strong academic record.

To select the winners, a subcommittee of the Doctoral Advisory Committee
ranked the applicants by merit. Individual labs were not allowed more than one
fellowship winner, and the committee did not consider the funding status of
the lab.

“The BME PhD students are the engine of our research enterprise,” says
Ashutosh Chilkoti, the chair of Duke BME. “I’m pleased that the department can
support their research through this program.”

Congratulations to this year’s recipients, listed below:

**Tomothy Shoyer** , The Robert Hochmuth Fellowship

**Tri Vu** , The Stephen Smith Fellowship

**Riley Deutsch** , The Frederick Thurstone Fellowship

**Jonathan Su** , The Howard G. Clark III Fellowship

**Brandon Thio** , The Robert Plonsey Fellowship

**Kevin Erning** , The William M. “Monty” Reichert Fellowship

**Tianyu Wu** , The Howard G. Clark III Fellowship

**Brian Chan** , The Morton H. Friedman Fellowship

**Daniel Park** , The John Strohbehn Fellowship

**Chunxi Wang** , The James H. McElhaney Fellowship

**Hala El-Nahal** , The Theo Pilkington Fellowship

**Yuqi Tian** , The Wanda Krassowska Fellowship

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

