

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Two Duke Engineering Professors Earn Office of Naval Research Young
Investigator Awards

April 28, 2014

The recipients are Xuanhe Zhao and Michael Zavlanos

Two Pratt School of Engineering faculty members have been awarded a 2014 Young
Investigator Award from the Office of Naval Research, making Duke the only
university with multiple mechanical engineers/materials scientists honored as
recipients. The program funds researchers who are within the first five years
of beginning their first tenure-track position and show exceptional promise
for doing creative research. Each award comes with a maximum of $170,000 in
funding for up to three years.

Duke’s recipients include Xuanhe Zhao and Michael Zavlanos, both assistant
professors of mechanical engineering and materials science, for their
proposals, “Harnessing Extraordinary Surface and Bulk Properties of Graphene-
Polymer Nanocomposite for Advanced Naval Coating,” and, “Distributed Real-Time
Optimization of Mobile Wireless Networks,” respectively.

Zavlanos’s project will develop a new framework for the distributed and on-
the-fly optimization of mobile wireless networks. When existing global
communication infrastructures such as satellites go down, combat troops in the
field need a backup plan. Given the proper algorithms, communication devices
will be able to autonomously form standalone wireless networks that can
determine admissible end-to-end communication rates, routes, pairwise link
capacities, and power allocation across frequency and fading states in a
distributed way.

These networks will be formed in a distributed manner, with the wireless
devices using information that is available within their immediate
communication neighborhood. The ultimate goal is an intelligent, distributed,
mobile communication network that operates in closed-loop with the Marines, as
it reconfigures and adapts to the mission to provide marines with reliable and
up-to-the-minute communications and availability of information, particularly
in austere, non-line-of-sight environments.

Zhao’s project will develop a new type of surface coating for naval vessels
and other applications. The material is a nanoscale combination of state-of-
the-art polymers and graphene—a sheet made of a single layer of carbon atoms
that has remarkable qualities like high strength, low weight and efficient
thermal and electrical conduction.

The sheets of graphene are crumpled and integrated with existing polymer
technology. The resulting material can dynamically change its surface patterns
when an electrical voltage is applied to knock off any bacterial biofilm
buildup. The graphene also makes the material extremely tough, potentially
providing a new coating technology against biofouling and corrosion with
unprecedented effectiveness and durability.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

