

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Undergraduate Entrepreneur

April 19, 2018

Samuel Fox's student-project-turned-startup improves patient mobility

_Updated August 5, 2019_

Not many students can say they formed a successful company before earning
their undergraduate degree. But Samuel Fox, a biomedical engineering student
at Duke University, did just that when he founded Zephyr Mobility (renamed
Seneca Mobility in August 2019) before his senior year of college.

Fox was a junior at Duke when he was introduced to BME professor Kevin Caves.
At the time, Fox was hoping to design a tool that would make it easier for
people in wheelchairs to shower, and he thought that Caves, who taught the
“Devices for People with Disabilities” design course at Duke, would offer him
valuable feedback. They discussed the idea before Caves put Fox in touch with
Laura Juel, an occupational therapist at Lenox Baker Hospital, to give him a
better idea about the needs of patients and caretakers.

Through their discussion, Fox learned that safely moving patients in and out
of bed was a major issue for healthcare workers, as the current mobility
devices are slow and often require two or more caretakers to use.

Their discussion gave Fox an idea—what if he could create a tool that could
safely move patients out of bed and place them into a wheelchair, all without
putting the caretakers under physical strain? Fox quickly changed his initial
wheelchair design, opting instead to create a device that would safely and
effectively solve this problem. To further pursue his idea, Fox formed a
company, drawing on the expertise of BME faculty to aid him in his efforts.

“My BME advisor, Professor Robert Malkin, was the first person I went to for
advice, and he helped me plan an ambitious development strategy,” says Fox, a
senior in BME. “He continually encouraged me that I was moving in the right
direction.”

Unlike current devices on the market which hoist patients into the air, Fox
designed a device that scoops an air cushion beneath the patient’s body, which
then slides them laterally from the bed to the wheelchair. According to Fox,
this method is not only more comfortable for the patient, but also less likely
to malfunction—and it doesn’t physically strain the caregivers.

After building his proof-of-concept design in the Foundry—an interdisciplinary
student workspace sponsored by the Pratt School of Engineering—Fox entered the
Duke Startup Challenge and received the 2017 Duke BME Prize offered through
the competition. The prize provided Fox with $5,000 to turn his prototype into
a field-testable device.

Fox also began to collaborate with Bill Walker, Duke Engineering’s first
Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurial Ventures. “Bill had a
transformative impact on the project, bringing his huge wealth of knowledge
and network to help me,” says Fox. “He’s meeting with me as often as I need it
to give me lots of advice on every topic.”

With Walker’s help, Fox has pitched his company to potential investors at the
Melissa & Doug Entrepreneurs Demo Day event in Connecticut, where he raised
nearly $30,000 in funding. He also pitched his design at an Innovation Jam at
the Duke University Medical Center, and is currently nearing an agreement for
a collaboration with Duke Health, which would give him access to facilities
and nurses to field-test his product.

While Fox recognizes that starting a company is challenging, he is thankful
for the support undergraduate students have to pursue entrepreneurship. “The
big barrier in healthcare startups is getting access to the system and
communicating with clinicians,” says Fox. “Duke has really made it easy to do
that by encouraging connections between engineering and medicine.

“This experience has made me realize how important it is to seek out problems
that you think really matter,” he says. “I encourage other students to
experiment with their ideas as early as possible and get advice from anyone
they can, because everyone in BME wants to help curious, energetic students
succeed.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

