

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# An Unintentional Work of Art

February 4, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

When Duke Engineers went to 3D print an artificial hawk’s nest to hide drone
surveillance equipment, the results were more colorful than expected

When Misheel Sodgerel set out to 3D print an enormous replica of a hawk’s
nest, she was focused on fulfilling the engineering criteria required to
conceal drone detection equipment. She didn’t intend to create a unique piece
of art.

But she did.

“Because COVID has made everything on campus so weird, Misheel had to make the
nest out of a hodgepodge of pieces printed with various colors,” said Missy
Cummings, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke University.
“When she finished it, I was struck by how the random components brought
together ended up combining into something that I think is so beautiful that I
almost wish she didn’t have to paint it.”

Duke's Drone Detection System from Duke University on Vimeo.

The story of Misheel and the amazing technicolor hawk’s nest began back in
2017 when Cummings and collaborators at Clemson University secured a grant to
explore passive, inexpensive solutions for detecting and deterring unwanted
drones. While the original grant included partners such as the Sarah P. Duke
Gardens and the Durham Bulls, the project has since expanded to additional
spaces including state prisons and Cary’s Koka Booth Amphitheatre.

Over the past three years, Cummings and her students have engineered an
alerting system that uses microphones, thermal cameras and RF detectors to
spot unwanted drones and the people flying them. It primarily consists of a
microphone connected to a Raspberry Pi—a simple, inexpensive computer board
originally developed to teach basic programming—a data server and a smart
phone to run an associated app, all costing less than $1,000 total.

But nobody wants an ugly black box perched in the middle of an impeccably
maintained public space where the views are part of the experience. To
camouflage the equipment, Clemson collaborators led by Hala Nassar designed
and constructed a large hawk’s nest to house it. But weighing in at nearly 30
pounds and being made from actual twigs and branches, the original nest isn’t
likely to last long when consistently battered by the natural elements. So
Sodgerel and Cumming set out to engineer a new version that could.

“It’s the definition of a team project,” said Cummings. “The Clemson landscape
architects did a fantastic job designing a gorgeous nest. It really is a piece
of art. Then it was our job to reengineer that nest to fit the needs of the
field that we’ve discovered. But we didn’t expect to come out with new art.”

The engineering team began their engineering process by scanning many of the
branches used in the original nest. They then cut the layers of branches from
two down to one, and made some twigs hollow and others one-sided to save
weight. The final design was intended to be 3D printed in dozens of pieces and
snapped together by hand.

But when Sodgerel set out to actually print it, there weren’t enough printers
filled with the same color to make the nest uniform. Because the nest was
going to be painted over anyway, Sodgerel decided to go ahead and just print
all the pieces out of whatever colors were available at the time.

Now that the nest is printed and painted, it’s ready for installation.
Cummings and her team plan on testing the nest first on Duke’s campus. But
it’s not the only piece of the puzzle that needs to blend in and stand up to
the environment.

The drone detection equipment is also housed by a protective box that sits
within the camouflaging nest. In its first design iteration, the box’s holes
were too large, allowing wild animals to move in and make it their home. The
second version had smaller holes that kept the animals out and, Cummings
hoped, would also help keep moisture out.

“We thought we had a great design and installed it for testing at Koka Booth
Amphitheater,” said Cummings. “But we soon found out that it wasn’t hurricane-
proof. Hopefully with the new nest and a new box we’ll hit on a winning
combination.”

Due to issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic, plans for potentially using
the nest and equipment in the Sarah P. Duke Gardens is on hold. But Cummings
says that not only will the nest be available if the venue decides to try it
out, the 3D CAD model is freely available to anyone who might want to use and
modify the underlying design to meet their own unique requirements.

## Related News

June 19, 2019

### An App for Stopping Drone Deliveries over Prison Walls

October 13, 2017

### Deterring Drones from Ballparks and Botanical Gardens

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

