

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Upside-Down Design Expands Wide-Spectrum Super-Camera Abilities

July 6, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

New design for plasmonic metasurfaces increases their frequency range while
protecting them from the elements

By turning a traditional lab-based fabrication process upside down,
researchers at Duke University have greatly expanded the abilities of light-
manipulating metasurfaces while also making them much more robust against the
elements.

The combination could allow these quickly maturing devices to be used in a
wide range of practical applications, such as cameras that capture images in a
broad spectrum of light in a single shutter snap.

The results appear online July 1 in the journal Nano Letters.

Plasmonics is a technology that essentially traps the energy of light in
groups of electrons oscillating together on a metal surface. This creates a
small but powerful electromagnetic field that interacts with incoming light.

Traditionally, these groups of electrons — called plasmons — have been excited
on the surfaces of metal nanocubes. By controlling the size of the nanocubes
and their spacing from each other as well as the metal base below, the system
can be tuned to absorb specific wavelengths of light.

> “We need to control certain dimensions with single-nanometer precision over
> the surface of a centimeter-sized wafer. That’s like trying to control the
> thickness of the blades of grass on a football field.”
>
> maiken mikkelsen

These so-called plasmonic metasurfaces consist of three layers — a metal base
coated in a nanometer-thin transparent substrate topped with silver nanocubes.
While this configuration has worked well for laboratory demonstrations, it
leaves little room for creativity. Because an area of the nanoparticle must be
within a few nanometers of the metal surface below, researchers couldn’t use a
wide variety of shapes.

To get around this need for flatness, Maiken Mikkelsen, the James N. and
Elizabeth H. Barton Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
at Duke, and her team decided to try to put each nanoparticle in its own
dimple or well. This would surround the entire lower halves of the
nanoparticles with metal, allowing the sides to host plasmons as well as the
bottoms. But because of incredibly tight tolerances, this is easier said than
done.

“We need to control certain dimensions with single-nanometer precision over
the surface of a centimeter-sized wafer,” Mikkelsen said. “That’s like trying
to control the thickness of the blades of grass on a football field.”

To meet this challenge, Mikkelsen and her laboratory essentially flipped the
traditional fabrication process upside down. Rather than starting with a metal
surface and putting a thin transparent substrate on top followed by nanocubes,
they start with the nanocubes, which they cover with a precisely thin spacer
coating that follows the underlying shape, and top off with a metal coating.
It’s almost like a pineapple upside-down cake, where the nanocubes are the
pineapples that get covered in caramelized sugar and baked into a thin bottom.

Because more than one surface of the nanocubes could now trap plasmons between
gaps, Mikkelsen and her colleagues could experiment in 3D with new
nanoparticle shapes. In the paper, the team tried out solid spheres and
cuboctahedra — a shape consisting of eight triangular faces and six square
faces — as well as metal spheres with a quartz core.

“Synthesizing nanoparticles can be tricky and there are limitations for each
shape,” Mikkelsen said. “By being able to use almost all shapes, we really
open up a lot of new possibilities, including exploring a variety of metals.”

Test results showed that not only can the new fabrication method match or
exceed the capabilities of previous methods using silver nanocubes, it can
also expand the range of frequencies that are harnessed by using these
different shapes and metals. The research also revealed that these variations
change where the nanoparticles capture energy on their surfaces. Combined with
the added bonus of essentially weatherizing the entire device by enveloping
the nanoparticles, the new technique could potentially expand the technology’s
use into driving chemical reactions or thermal detectors.

> “Synthesizing nanoparticles can be tricky and there are limitations for each
> shape. By being able to use almost all shapes, we really open up a lot of
> new possibilities, including exploring a variety of metals.”
>
> maiken mikkelsen

Mikkelsen’s first priority, however, is applying the fabrication technique to
her $7.5 million Department of Defense project to create a “super camera” that
can capture and process a wide range of light’s properties, such as
polarization, depth, phase, coherence and incidence angle.

“What is really significant here, is that large, macroscopic areas can be
covered by the metasurfaces very inexpensively, as we use entirely
lithography-free fabrication techniques,” Mikkelsen said. “This means the
metasurfaces can be integrated with other existing technologies and also
create inspiration for new plasmonic metasurface applications.”

This research was supported by the Oﬃce of Naval Research (N00014-17-1-2589),
the Army Research Oﬃce (W911NF1610471), and the Air Force Oﬃce of Scientiﬁc
Research (FA9550-18-383 1-0326, FA9550-21-1-0312).

CITATION: “Control of Nanoscale Heat Generation with Lithography-Free
Metasurface Absorbers,” W. Stewart, Tamra Nebabu, and Maiken H. Mikkelsen.
Nano Letters, 6/09/2022. DOI: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c00761

## Related News

March 10, 2021

### Capturing All of Light’s Data in One Snapshot

November 25, 2019

### Light-Trapping Nanocubes Drive Inexpensive Multispectral Camera

October 15, 2019

### Mikkelsen Wins Moore Inventor Fellowship to Pursue Hyperspectral Cameras

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

