

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Innovative Textile Vents to Release Heat When You Sweat

December 16, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Moisture opens the vents, rather than electronics

Materials Scientists at Duke University have developed a lightweight material
that traps thermal energy when dry, but opens a series of tiny vents to let
heat escape when a person starts sweating. The vents close again to retain
heat once they are dry.

Using physics rather than electronics to open the vents, the material has
potential as a patch on various types of clothing to help keep the wearer
comfortable in a wide range of situations.

The approach is described online on December 15 in the journal Science
Advances.

“People who are skiing or hiking in colder weather usually wear layers so they
can adjust how much heat their clothing is trapping as their body heats up,”
said Po-Chun Hsu, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke. “But by strategically placing patches of a material that can
let out heat when a person is sweating, one could imagine making a one-piece-
fits-all textile.”

When first attempting to make such a dual-purpose material, Hsu turned to
nylon. It’s inexpensive, lightweight and soft, and Hsu knew that if cut into
flaps, nylon curls in on itself a little bit when one side is exposed to
moisture.

Nylon is not, however, known for making particularly warm clothing, so Hsu
added a layer of heat-trapping silver on top. Expecting the weight of the
silver to bog down the nylon flaps, he tried to make the layer as thin as
possible. But to his surprise, the silver addition actually made the flaps
curl back even more.

After experimenting with various thicknesses of silver, Hsu discovered a
Goldilocks spot around 50 nanometers—2,000 times thinner than a sheet of
paper. Any thinner and the phenomena wouldn’t be as strong. Any thicker and
the weight of the silver started interfering with the vents opening.

Puzzled as to what exactly was happening on his lab bench, Hsu turned to Cate
Brinson, the Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Distinguished Professor and
Donald M. Altstadt Chair of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at
Duke. Working with a postdoctoral researcher in her laboratory, Boran Ma,
Brinson was able to provide an explanation.

“It’s surprising and counterintuitive, but adding something heavy on top of a
polymer can actually make it bend and open more,” Brinson said. “What it comes
down to is that the silver is shrinking and the nylon is expanding.”

Brinson and Ma explained that when the bottom layer of nylon gets wet, it
wants to expand like a sheet being pulled from its sides. But because it’s
attached to the silver on top, it can’t stretch in those directions. The
easiest option remaining is for the two-layer material to curl up, allowing
the nylon to expand while forcing the silver to shrink.

In the experiments, the researchers created a patch about the size of a human
hand with flaps a few millimeters long—about the size of a fingernail.
Compared with an average traditional textile represented by a blend of
polyester and spandex, the material is about 16% warmer when dry with the
flaps closed and 14% cooler when humid with the flaps open. Put together, the
nylon-silver hybrid can expand the thermal comfort zone by 30%. According to
Hsu, this approach has advantages to existing methods of venting heat through
warm clothing, such as placing zippers beneath the armpits.

“We want the sweating parts of the body to be vented, which is not necessarily
the underarms,” Hsu said. “Our chest and back need more venting, but the
effort to unzip these areas, if zippers are even available, is almost the same
as simply taking off the clothing.”

Moving forward, Hsu is working on making the vents as small as possible while
retaining their effectiveness. He’s also exploring using a top nanocomposite
layer that could make the material any color without changing its thermal
attributes.

“I expect that if we can find the right laser cutting method to create very
small flaps and attach the patch to clothing, we can create this effect
without looking like we’re wearing a costume,” said Hsu. “With enough work,
this kind of material could look very similar to what we’re wearing today.”

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation DMREF program
(CMMI-1818574) and CSSI program (CSSI-1835677).

CITATION: “Metalized Polyamide Heterostructure as a Moisture-Responsive
Actuator for Multimodal Adaptive Personal Heat Management,” Xiuqiang Li, Boran
Ma, Jingyuan Dai, Chenxi Sui, Divya Pande, David R Smith, L. Catherine
Brinson, Po-Chun Hsu. Science Advances, Dec. 16, 2021. DOI:
10.1126/sciadv.abj7906

## Related News

October 28, 2021

### Smart Material Switches Between Heating and Cooling in Minutes

December 02, 2020

### Nanomaterials Enable Passive Dual-Mode Heating and Cooling Device

September 07, 2018

### Po-Chun Hsu: Engineering Nanostructured Materials to Keep You Cool

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

