

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke-Georgia Tech Spinal Implant Start-Up Acquired by NuVasive

September 18, 2017

The start-up founded by MEMS Chair Ken Gall pioneered a novel porous PEEK
technology

DURHAM, N.C. -- Vertera Spine, a start-up created through research at both
Duke University and the Georgia Institute of Technology, has been acquired by
NuVasive, Inc. (NASDAQ: NUVA), a leading medical device company focused on
transforming spine surgery with minimally disruptive, procedurally integrated
solutions.

Vertera was founded in 2013 by Ken Gall, who was in the School of Materials
Science at Georgia Tech at the time and is now chair of Duke’s Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science.

Vertera Spine is based on a novel process to create porous PEEK
(polyetherether ketone), a high strength biopolymer that allows for better
bone attachment and repair following spinal surgery.

“Making a porous plastic is relatively easy, but the scientific problem
Vertera solved is making the porous material high-strength and tuning the
porosity so that bones stick to it,” said Gall, a noted biomaterials engineer
and serial entrepreneur who worked with Bob Guldberg, the executive director
of the Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience at Georgia
Tech, to perfect the biological and mechanical properties of the polymer.

During lumbar or cervical spinal fusion procedures, physicians insert a spinal
cage implant between vertebrae to provide stability and support while the
segments fuse. Although some orthopedic implants have long contained porosity
to facilitate bone integration, spinal cages have only recently contained
porosity.

Prior to Vertera’s porous PEEK polymer, porous spinal cages were only
available in metals, which do not show up as well in medical imaging.

“Our porous PEEK is the first FDA-cleared load-bearing porous plastic implant
in the human body, and it’s the first porous implant that has the potential to
be tracked for bony attachment by CT scan,” Gall said.

Gall and his collaborators at Vertera created porous PEEK by discovering a way
to form a highly porous, interconnected network from a solid surface without
adding or subtracting material and without negatively impacting the mechanical
properties of the material. Once they discovered the method to create the
porosity, they systematically altered the size of the pores in the polymer,
carefully adjusting them so that the polymer was still highly interconnected
and finely tuned to facilitate bony attachment.

According to Gall, bone cells can sense the surrounding three-dimensional
network as they grow, allowing the implant to effectively attach to the bone.
Post implantation, physicians can monitor the implant using a CT scan, as the
polymer doesn’t affect the imaging technology.

The porous PEEK technology was first clinically introduced in 2016 when
Vertera launched their COHERE implant. So far, more than 2,000 of these
implants have been successfully used in spinal surgeries.

“Our preclinical testing of the Vertera porous PEEK implant technology at
Georgia Tech showed that it dramatically increases integration strength with
bone following implantation,” said Guldberg. “It’s been very exciting to help
translate collaborative research into innovative commercial products that are
improving outcomes for back surgery patients.”

The development of this technology was originally supported by the Georgia
Research Alliance, an organization through Georgia Tech that supports startup
companies around inventions and discoveries. The Duke Angel Network (DAN)
provided additional support to further grow the entrepreneurial venture during
the company’s second and third round of funding.

The Duke Angel Network exists within the Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Initiative (I&E), which helps Duke entrepreneurial companies grow by
facilitating the flow of capital and support from Duke angel investors.

"We were honored to be a part of the Vertera success,” said John Glushik, the
managing director of DAN. “The Duke Angel Network provided both capital and
guidance to support a great Vertera team, and the results of this investment
help validate our ability to support Duke entrepreneurs while producing great
returns for our investors."

“The support from the Georgia Research Alliance was essential to help
commercialize the product along the way,” says Gall, who joined Duke MEMS in
2015. “And the Duke I&E and the Duke Angel Network have provided us with
capital investment and key guidance during the last two years of Vertera’s
growth into the market. We are extremely fortunate at Duke to have this
incredible resource for faculty, students and alumni entrepreneurs.”

To see how the porous PEEK works, check out our video below:

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

