

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A View from the Inside: Exploring the Latest Ultrasound Techniques

April 6, 2014 | By Claudia Dantoin

Duke's Kathy Nightingale aims to transform how the world of ultrasound imaging
interfaces with the human condition

_Originally published in DukEngineer_

Boldly seeing what no team has seen before. This mission seems to be the
motivation for Kathy Nightingale, PhD, the James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent
Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, and her colleagues in the
Biomedical Engineering Department of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke,
as they aim to transform how the world of ultrasound imaging interfaces with
the human condition.

The underlying principle of their research dates to 400 B.C. with the work of
Hippocrates, who was perhaps the first person to record differences in normal
abdominal tissues that are soft and malleable compared with abnormal abdominal
tissues that are hard and stiff. The technology used for detecting these
differences has largely evolved in recent years due to critical advances
provided by Nightingale and her colleagues and collaborators at Duke
University.

From her days as an undergraduate and a graduate student in the Biomedical
Engineering Department, Nightingale has focused on the world of medical
imaging, most recently working with the Siemens Corporation in gaining US Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) approval on virtual touch elastography imaging.

While recognition for this advancement came only recently, the setting of this
tale lies in several papers published just over a decade ago. In particular, a
manuscript titled, “On the Feasibility of Remote Palpation Using Acoustic
Radiation Force,” laid the groundwork for the influential research that was to
come out of Nightingale’s laboratory over the next several years.

This work focuses on the concept of mechanical excitation, a term Nightingale
translates to “pushing on tissue.” The approach involves a high-intensity
acoustic beam that pushes on the inside of a tissue, causing a shear wave to
ripple through. The speed of these resulting waves is directly related to the
stiffness of the tissue being probed, where regions of higher stiffness are
denoted by darker colors on the resulting image. Using this technique in
conjunction with the normal use of ultrasound, which gives an image of the
acoustic properties of bodily tissue, a map of tissue stiffness as it relates
to its surroundings can emerge.

Taking this concept one step further, the team has investigated the two
stiffness-related response-wave forms: ARFI and SWEI. Acoustic radiation force
impulse imaging (ARFI) is a more qualitative approach, allowing for higher
image resolution, whereas shear wave elasticity imaging (SWEI) provides a more
quantitative approach, allowing higher contrast between images and estimating
tissue stiffness in numeric form.

While both approaches provide substantive data for imaging, Nightingale says
her ongoing research seeks to perpetuate the idea that “a technology is only
as good as its application.” One successful application of this mission
statement is in liver fibrosis staging, that is, evaluating the scarring of
liver tissue caused by, among others, hepatitis, alcohol and obesity. Their
success here arises from the fact that shear wave speed in liver tissue
increases with increasing fibrosis, thus liver tissue shear wave speeds are
correlated with the clinical outcomes of liver biopsies. This means that
virtual touch imaging has the potential to streamline the way physicians check
for liver fibrosis.

Using similar techniques, Nightingale and her team have worked extensively in
prognosticating cancer in the prostate gland. Other research at Duke, led by
Gregg Trahey, PhD, the Robert Plonsey Professor of Biomedical Engineering, and
Patrick Wolf, PhD, associate professor of biomedical engineering, focuses on
developing viable applications with cardiovascular and ablation monitoring
(monitoring tissue post-surgery). If a technology is truly only as good as its
application, then the merit of this technology speaks for itself.

Going forward, more work must be done to apply the use of ARFI and SWEI images
with equal effectiveness in all tissue types. Some organs, like the liver,
have a relatively homogeneous appearance, where one image could describe a
great deal about the rest of the organ. However, other organs, like the
prostate gland, do not have a similar pattern and, thus, must be modeled
differently.

Due to these groundbreaking efforts, Nightingale and her team members and
colleagues truly are pioneers in the field. Indeed, these achievements mark a
significant improvement from the observations originally made by Hippocrates.
And by using discoveries from more than a decade ago and pushing those
boundaries even farther, they have managed to offer even better solutions to
common medical practices. While the FDA just approved one form of this work
for use in the United States, possibilities abound for the future of imaging.
Given enough time, Nightingale and her colleagues will no doubt sound these
out as well.

_Claudia Dantoin is a first-year ECE/BME double major._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

