

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Visualizing Impact: Izatt Guest-Edits Special Issue of Biomedical Optics
Express on Optical Coherence Tomography

April 5, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

Joseph Izatt reflects on advancements and changes in the field of optical
coherence tomography 25 years after its creation.

Joseph Izatt, the Michael J. Fitzpatrick Professor of Engineering at Duke
University, recently served as the lead editor for a special issue of
_Biomedical Optics Express_ published April 1, 2017 in celebration of the 25th
anniversary of the invention of optical coherence tomography (OCT). Izatt, who
helped pioneer the technology as a postdoc at MIT, has focused much of his
career on developing OCT, which is today a primary tool used for detecting and
monitoring treatment of serious eye diseases in clinics worldwide.

With a joint appointment in BME and ophthalmology, Izatt is considered one of
the leading experts in OCT, a medical imaging technique that allows
researchers to peer beneath the surface of living tissues to diagnose and
treat diseases. Although there are numerous uses of the technology, it is
primarily used by eye doctors to detect and treat vision problems. To
recognize how far work with OCT has developed, _Biomedical Optics Express_
invited Izatt to organize the special issue of the journal, where he assembled
a guest editorial board to curate articles and reviews about the various
fields of OCT research.

“The anniversary was an opportunity to invite our scientific colleagues to
reflect and write about the development of their subfields of OCT,” says
Izatt. “We were pleased that so many authors were enthusiastic about
contributing to the special issue.”

To celebrate the anniversary, the Association for Research in Vision and
Ophthalmology (ARVO) also featured Izatt and his collaborator, Dr. Cynthia
Toth, a professor in BME and Ophthalmology, in a series of videos about OCT.
Together, the researchers discussed how Izatt and his team were creating
handheld microscopes for imaging eye diseases in children, as well as
operating room microscopes for live imaging during eye surgery, and showed how
OCT is directly benefiting patients.

Although Izatt’s laboratory at Duke continues to develop new ways to advance
and improve upon OCT, the anniversary has allowed him to reflect on his
previous work with the imaging technique and coordinate with his early
collaborators, including Professor James Fujimoto, Dr. David Huang and Eric
Swanson, members of the MIT team that invented the technique.

“Before these events surrounding the 25th year anniversary, we hadn’t taken
much time to discuss and reflect on those early days in OCT,” says Izatt. “The
anniversary gave us a chance to come back together and reflect on the
worldwide teamwork, collaboration and competition which allowed all of this to
happen, and the significance for daily vision care of the result.”

To learn more about the special issue of Biomedical Optics Express, visit:

https://www.osapublishing.org/boe/virtual_issue.cfm?vid=336

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

