

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ‘Vortex Microlaser’ Encodes Information in Twisting Beams of Light

May 18, 2020

Engineers develop first tunable, chip-based vortex microlaser and detector,
providing a new route to increasing the bandwidth of fiber optic
communications

Adapted from a press release from the University of Pennsylvania

Researchers from a worldwide collaboration have demonstrated the ability to
precisely control a property of a laser called its orbital angular momentum.
The technology will allow researchers to transmit more data in optical
communications devices, offering a new route to stay ahead of the world’s
increasing demand for data.

The study appeared online on May 14 in the journal Science and was a
collaboration between the University of Pennsylvania, Duke University,
Northeastern University and the Polytechnic University of Milan.

“Our findings mark a large step toward launching large-capacity optical
communication networks and confronting the upcoming information crunch,” said
Liang Feng, assistant professor of materials science and engineering and
electrical and systems engineering at UPenn.

“This work began when both Professor Feng and I were at the University at
Buffalo and demonstrated the first on-chip microlaser that could emit a fixed
shape,” said Natasha Litchinitser, professor of electrical and computer
engineering at Duke. “We were excited to continue our work by helping
Professor Feng’s group increase the amount of data their new laser system can
potentially carry.”

As computers get more powerful and connected, their hunger for data is in a
constant race with the technologies used to transmit it. Light-based optical
fiber internet services from providers such as Google and AT&T are already
replacing slower, outdated technologies based on electrons such as cable and
DSL.

Much of the difference in bandwidth, however, does not come from light’s
ability to outrace electricity. Instead it comes from “multiplexing”
techniques—the ability to layer data into multiple aspects of a light wave,
such as its amplitude, wavelength and polarization. But the aspects that
scientists are able to control are beginning to run out, as is the amount of
room left to store data in the conventional properties of light.

To break through this barrier, engineers are exploring some of light’s harder-
to-control properties. In the new study, researchers have demonstrated a
system that can manipulate one such property known as the orbital angular
momentum (OAM), creating a microlaser that can be dynamically tuned to
multiple OAM modes. Critically, they are the first to do so on small
semiconductor chips and with enough precision that it can be used as a medium
for transmitting information.

“I explain OAM to my classes by thinking about planets,” said Litchinitser.
“Spin angular momentum (SAM) is a light wave spinning on its axis like the
Earth spins on its axis, which gives us night and day. But you can also get
light to rotate around its axis of travel like the Earth rotates around the
moving sun. And if you visualize this dynamic in three dimensions, it looks
like the light is traveling in a vortex.”

Such “vortex” lasers were first demonstrated by Feng and Litchinitser with
quantum symmetry-driven designs in 2016. However, that original work and
follow-up developments in the field have thus far been limited to transmitting
a single, pre-set OAM mode, making them impractical for encoding more
information.

In the most basic form of optical communication, transmitting a binary message
is as simple as representing 1s and 0s by whether the light is on or off. This
is effectively a measure of the light’s amplitude — how high the peak of the
wave is — which we experience as brightness. As lasers and detectors become
more precise, they can consistently emit and distinguish between different
levels of amplitude, allowing for more bits of information to be contained in
the same signal.

Even more sophisticated lasers can alter other properties of light, such as
its wavelength, which corresponds to color, and its polarization, which is the
orientation of the wave’s oscillations relative to its direction of travel.
Many of these properties can be set independently of each other, allowing for
increasingly dense multiplexing.

Orbital angular momentum is yet another property of light, though it is
considerably harder to manipulate, given the complexity of the nanoscale
features necessary to generate it from computer-chip-sized lasers.

“But because total angular momentum has to be conserved, even though we’re
talking about two different types of momentum, if you decrease the spin
angular momentum, the orbital angular momentum has to increase, and vice
versa,” said Litchinitser.

This means that under highly controlled spin-orbit interactions, spin angular
momentum can be locked or converted into OAM. To take advantage of this
phenomenon, Feng, his graduate student Zhifeng Zhang and their colleagues
began with a “microring” laser, which consists of a ring of semiconductor,
only a few microns wide, through which light can circulate indefinitely as
long as power is supplied. When additional light is “pumped” into the ring
from control arms on either side of the ring, the delicately designed ring
emits “spinning” laser light. Critically, asymmetry between the two control
arms allows for the spin of the resulting laser to be coupled with its orbit
in a particular direction.

Feng and his team were able to demonstrate the ability to dynamically control
a laser’s OAM in three modes, -1, 0 and 1. These modes correspond to its
chirality, or the direction the helices twist. Three modes, however, is not
really enough to use in a multiplexing system for data transmission. To add
more potential bandwidth to their technology, Feng turned to his former
colleague.

Litchinitser and her research scientist, Jingbo Sun, proposed to take
advantage of a spin-to-orbital angular momentum transformation, which was
realized by adding a cylindrically non-uniform metamaterial structure in front
of the device. Using this metamaterial structure made of flat, concentric
metal rings, vortex beams with SAM of charge +1 or -1 and OAM of +1 or -1 were
converted to radially polarized vortex beams with an OAM of charge +2 or -2.
While the wavelength of the vortex remains the same at these additional modes,
its twisting pattern changes.

“We demonstrated a microring laser that is capable of emitting five distinct
OAM modes,” Feng said. “That may increase the data channel of such lasers by
up to five times.”

And while the SAM can only take two values, +1 and -1, the OAM has an
unbounded number of positive and negative states, meaning its manipulation
could potentially enablean unlimited number of new communication channels.

“While this particular configuration enables us to get to the modes of 2 and
-2, it can go further than that,” added Litchinitser. “We could achieve modes
of 3 and -3 as well, or even further, but it would require a different
design.”

The ability to dynamically tune OAM values could also enable a photonic update
to a classic encryption technique: frequency hopping. By rapidly switching
between OAM modes in a pre-defined sequence known only to the sender and
receiver, optical communications could be made impossible to intercept.

By combining their unique expertise to fabricate on-chip tunable vortex
microlasers, the collaborative team combining researchers from Feng’s and
Litchinitser’s groups is now working to design integrated systems to
demonstrate new concepts and applications, including multidimensional,
classical, and quantum communication, optical manipulation, and computing.
This demonstration of a new dimension for transmitting information based on
OAM modes can help create richer superposition quantum states to increase
information capacity by a few orders of magnitude.

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation and the U.S.
Army Research Office and was done in collaboration with Josep M. Jornet,
associate professor at Northeastern University, and Stefano Longhi, professor
at the Polytechnic University of Milan in Italy. Penn's Xingdu Qiao,
Bikashkali Midya, Kevin Liu, Tianwei Wu, Wenjing Liu and Duke's Jingbo Sun
significantly contributed to the work.

CITATION: “Tunable topological charge vortex microlaser.” Zhifeng Zhang,
Xingdu Qiao, Bikashkali Midya, Kevin Liu, Jingbo Sun, Tianwei Wu, Wenjing Liu,
Ritesh Agarwal, Josep Miquel Jornet, Stefano Longhi, Natalia M. Litchinitser,
Liang Feng. Science 368, 760–763 (2020). DOI: 10.1126/science.aba8996

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

