

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Walker Joins Duke as Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurial Ventures

July 15, 2016

Duke Engineering alumnus and entrepreneur Bill Walker will join the Pratt
School of Engineering this summer as the school's first Mattson Family
Director of Entrepreneurial Ventures.

This new position at Pratt, made possible by a gift from Pratt Board of
Visitors member George Mattson E'87 and Holly Mattson, will report to incoming
dean Ravi Bellamkonda and work closely with both the Duke Innovation &
Entrepreneurship Initiative and the Bass Connections program.

As director, Walker will empower Pratt faculty, students, and staff to create
high-impact, technology-based commercial ventures. He will focus on helping
Duke Engineering faculty, staff and students assess business opportunities for
commercializing their ideas and research and develop new companies based on
Pratt innovations.

Walker will also be responsible for developing new educational activities to
enhance innovation and entrepreneurship training for undergraduate and
graduate students, as well as fostering collaboration across the university
and with industry and investors.

Walker completed both his undergraduate and PhD degrees in biomedical
engineering at Duke, and returns with over 15 years' experience in product
research and development and entrepreneurship. Holder of 23 patents, he served
as founder and director of the successful ultrasound technology company
PocketSonics as well as founder, president and CTO of Hemosonics, LLC, a
startup based on core technology he developed to characterize hemostasis. He
will continue part-time as CTO at Hemosonics while in his new role. Walker
also served on the faculty of the Department of Biomedical Engineering at the
University of Virginia from 1997 to 2013.

"With his broad experience in engineering education and entrepreneurship, Bill
impressed the search committee and all who met him during his interview as an
excellent candidate for this important new role at Pratt," said George
Truskey, interim Vinik Dean of Engineering. "We have every confidence in his
ability to inspire and prepare all members of the Pratt community for
innovative leadership."

Walker will begin his new role on July 15, 2016.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

