

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Walker Appointed to North Carolina Board of Science, Technology and
Innovation

February 10, 2021

Appointed by Governor Cooper, Bill Walker will bring a experience from both
industry and academia to the board focused on accelerating technology
companies

Bill Walker, director of Engineering Entrepreneurship at Duke University, has
been appointed to the North Carolina Board of Science, Technology and
Innovation (NCBSTI) by Governor Roy Cooper.

NCBSTI encourages, promotes and supports research in scientific, industrial
and engineering research, and its potential impact on industry and commercial
enterprises throughout the state. It primarily focuses on accelerating North
Carolina’s next generation of technologies and their associated companies by
investigating emerging areas that could impact the state and studying the
competitiveness of the state’s industry and research institutions in these
fields.

“I’ve been engaged in North Carolina’s culture of innovation since 1986, and
I’ve been excited to see how technological innovation improves lives and
create meaningful, high-paying jobs,” said Walker. “I’m grateful for this
opportunity to serve the people of the state and to engage Duke in the ongoing
effort to make North Carolina even more competitive.”

Walker joins the board as an accomplished leader with 30 years of experience
in research, product development, entrepreneurship and innovation. After
earning both his undergraduate and doctoral degrees in biomedical engineering
from Duke, Walker served as a professor of biomedical engineering at the
University of Virginia (UVA) for 16 years. During his time at UVA, he created
the undergraduate major in biomedical engineering, invented numerous
technologies and founded two successful startups. Pocketsonics developed one
the world’s first pocket-sized ultrasound imaging device. In 2010, Walker left
UVA to lead HemoSonics, a startup that used ultrasound to diagnose the causes
of bleeding.

At Duke, Walker serves as the Pratt School of Engineering’s Mattson Family
Director of Engineering Entrepreneurship. He is also a founder and leader of
the school’s Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn) program—a new initiative
integrating the school’s strengths and entrepreneurial resources to deliver
technological solutions to societal needs in health, defense, climate change
and beyond.

In these positions, Walker coaches Pratt faculty, students and staff to help
them create high-impact, technology-based commercial ventures. Walker is also
responsible for developing new educational activities to enhance innovation
and entrepreneurship training for undergraduate and graduate students, as well
as fostering collaboration across the university and with industry and
investors. Walker’s work at Duke has allowed for the university to build a
leading program for students and faculty to address pressing societal issues
in North Carolina and beyond by translating innovative research to the
marketplace.

Walker succeeds Ravi Bellamkonda, dean of the Pratt School of Engineering, as
Duke University’s representative on the board.

## Related News

September 23, 2020

### Duke Engineering’s New “EngEn” Accelerates the Impact of Tech-Based
Innovation

June 21, 2018

### The Next Big Thing: A Conversation with Steve McClelland and Bill Walker

April 01, 2018

### Bill Walker: A Mentor for New Entrepreneurs

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

