

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Warren Grill Named Editor in Chief of the Journal of Neural Engineering

February 6, 2023 | Michaela Kane

The biomedical engineer will work to increase the journal’s profile within the
neurosciences communities

Warren Grill, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of
Biomedical Engineering at Duke, has been named editor-in-chief of the Journal
of Neural Engineering.

Published by IOPscience, the Journal of Neural Engineering acts as a forum for
the interdisciplinary field of neural engineering where neuroscientists,
neurobiologists and engineers can publish their work. JNE bridges the gap
between neuroscience and engineering. The journal publishes articles in neural
engineering at the molecular, cellular and systems levels.

“After founding and acting as the editor-in-chief of the _Journal of Neural
Engineering_ for 18 years, I am excited to pass the baton to Warren Grill,"
said outgoing Editor-in-Chief Dominique Durand. “Dr. Grill has played a
significant role in bringing JNE to its status as the leading journal in the
field. I am sure that he will continue to foster its development to best serve
the neural engineering community.”

As the new Editor in Chief, Grill will maintain high editorial and scientific
standards and work to increase the journal’s profile within the biomedical
engineering and neuroscience communities. The impact of the journal will be
increased through more frequent topical issues, invited reviews, and by
expanding the scope to include more work in neural imaging and machine
learning.

“IOP Publishing recognizes the significant contributions made by Dr. Grill to
the field of neural engineering and to the development of _Journal of Neural
Engineering_ as a long-serving member of the journal’s Board,” said Richard
Kelsall from IOP Publishing. “In recognition of this, and following
consultation with trusted experts in the field, the staff at IOP Publishing
were unanimous that Dr. Grill should be offered the role in the first
instance. We are delighted that he could accept.”

Grill uses engineering approaches to understand and control neural function.
Specifically, his team explores how various types of electrical stimulation
can restore function, treat movement disorders and relieve pain. Projects from
his lab range from using deep brain stimulation to treat motor symptoms from
Parkinson’s Disease to using vagus nerve stimulation to reduce inflammation
and restore cognitive function after injury or surgery. Most recently, Grill
and his team have been advancing novel technologies that allow blocking the
activity in the nervous system and have widespread applications from treating
diabetes to treating chronic pain.

Recently, Grill was elected to the National Academy of Inventors, named a
fellow of the International Academy of Biological Engineering, his team won
the competitive Neuromod prize from the U.S. National Institutes of Health
(NIH), and he received the inaugural Clinical and Basic Science/Engineering
Innovator Award from the North American Neuromodulation Society.

“I am honored to serve as the new Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Neural
Engineering, and I am eager to build upon the foundation established by the
founding Editor-in-Chief, Dominique Durand. We owe a huge debt of gratitude to
Dr. Durand who established JNE as the premier journal in neural engineering
and worked tirelessly to ensure its success,” said Grill. “Working with our
dedicated Editorial Board and the team at IOP, I am committed to continuing to
advance the Journal as the leading scientific outlet in our field.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

