

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Watching Individual Neurons Respond to Magnetic Therapy

June 30, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Engineers and neuroscientists at Duke University have developed a method to
measure the response of an individual neuron to transcranial magnetic
stimulation

Engineers and neuroscientists at Duke University have developed a method to
measure the response of an individual neuron to transcranial magnetic
stimulation (TMS) of the brain. The advance will help researchers understand
the underlying physiological effects of TMS -- a procedure used to treat
psychiatric disorders -- and optimize its use as a therapeutic treatment.

TMS uses magnetic fields created by electric currents running through a wire
coil to induce neural activity in the brain. With the flip of a switch,
researchers can cause a hand to move or influence behavior. The technique has
long been used in conjunction with other treatments in the hopes of improving
treatment for conditions including depression and substance abuse.

While studies have demonstrated the efficacy of TMS, the technique’s
physiological mechanisms have long been lost in a “black box.” Researchers
know what goes into the treatment and the results that come out, but do not
understand what’s happening in between.

Part of the reason for this mystery lies in the difficulty of measuring neural
responses during the procedure; the comparatively tiny activity of a single
neuron is lost in the tidal wave of current being generated by TMS. But the
new study demonstrates a way to remove the proverbial haystack.

The results were published online June 29 in _Nature Neuroscience_.

“Nobody really knows what TMS is doing inside the brain, and given that lack
of information, it has been very hard to interpret the outcomes of studies or
to make therapies more effective,” said Warren Grill, professor of biomedical
engineering, electrical and computer engineering, and neurobiology at Duke.
“We set out to try to understand what’s happening inside that black box by
recording activity from single neurons during the delivery of TMS in a non-
human primate. Conceptually, it was a very simple goal. But technically, it
turned out to be very challenging.”

First, Grill and his colleagues in the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences
(DIBS) engineered new hardware that could separate the TMS current from the
neural response, which is thousands of times smaller. Once that was achieved,
however, they discovered that their recording instrument was doing more than
simply recording.

The TMS magnetic field was creating an electric current through the electrode
measuring the neuron, raising the possibility that this current, instead of
the TMS, was causing the neural response. The team had to characterize this
current and make it small enough to ignore.

Finally, the researchers had to account for vibrations caused by the large
current passing through the TMS device’s small coil of wire -- a design
problem in and of itself, because the typical TMS coil is too large for a non-
human primate’s head. Because the coil is physically connected to the skull,
the vibration was jostling the measurement electrode.

The researchers were able to compensate for each artifact, however, and see
for the first time into the black box of TMS. They successfully recorded the
action potentials of an individual neuron moments after TMS pulses and
observed changes in its activity that significantly differed from activity
following placebo treatments.

Grill worked with Angel Peterchev, assistant professor in psychiatry and
behavioral science, biomedical engineering, and electrical and computer
engineering, on the design of the coil. The team also included Michael Platt,
director of DIBS and professor of neurobiology, and Mark Sommer, a professor
of biomedical engineering.

They demonstrated that the technique could be recreated in different labs.
“So, any modern lab working with non-human primates and electrophysiology can
use this same approach in their studies,” said Grill.

The researchers hope that many others will take their method and use it to
reveal the effects TMS has on neurons. Once a basic understanding is gained of
how TMS interacts with neurons on an individual scale, its effects could be
amplified and the therapeutic benefits of TMS increased.

“Studies with TMS have all been empirical,” said Grill. “You could look at the
effects and change the coil, frequency, duration or many other variables. Now
we can begin to understand the physiological effects of TMS and carefully
craft protocols rather than relying on trial and error. I think that is where
the real power of this research is going to come from.”

This research was supported by a Research Incubator Award from the Duke
Institute for Brain Sciences and by a grant from the National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke of the National Institutes of Health (grant
R21 NS078687).

###

“Optimization Of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation And Single Neuron Recording
Methods For Combined Application In Alert Non-Human Primates.” Mueller, J.K.,
Grigsby, E.M., Prevosto, V., Petraglia III, F.W., Rao, H., Deng, Z.,
Peterchev, A.V., Sommer, M.A., Egner, T., Platt, M.L., Grill, W.M. Nature
Neuroscience, June 29, 2014. DOI:10.1038/nn.3751

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

