

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# West, Hawkins, Johnson Elected to the National Academy of Engineering

February 8, 2016

Jennifer West, the Fitzpatrick Family University Professor of Engineering at
Duke University, has been elected to the National Academy of Engineering
(NAE)—one of the highest professional distinctions for engineers.

Also among the 80 new members announced by the NAE today are Kristina Johnson,
former dean of the Pratt School of Engineering, and William A. Hawkins III, a
Duke engineering alumnus, former member of the Pratt Board of Visitors and
current member of the Duke University Board of Trustees.

West was cited “For developments in photothermal and theranostic therapies and
bioabsorbed scaffolds for tissue regeneration.” Hawkins, now corporate
director for TPG Capital and lead director of Immucor, Inc., was cited “For
leadership in biomedical engineering and translational medicine,” while
Johnson, now CEO of Cube Hydro Partners, was cited “For development and
deployment of liquid crystal on silicon display technologies, the basis for
high speed optoelectronic 3D imaging.”

"Election to the National Academy of Engineering is among the top honors an
engineer can achieve in a lifetime,” said George A. Truskey, interim dean of
the Pratt School of Engineering. “We are extremely proud that the NAE has
recognized the outstanding contributions of not only one of our leading
faculty members, but also two other individuals who have played important
roles in the Pratt School’s ascent.”

Jennifer West joined Duke in 2012 from Rice University, where she was chair of
the bioengineering department. She holds a joint professorship in biomedical
engineering and mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke, and is
also a professor of cell biology and of chemistry, member of the Duke Cancer
Institute, and associate dean for PhD education at Pratt.

West’s research focuses on the development of novel biomaterials and tissue
engineering to address a wide array of biological problems, from glaucoma to
cancer. Recent pursuits include creating patterned surfaces to control the
physical interactions of cultured cells and developing artificial “micro-
environments” that can mimic living tissues, making them ideal substrates for
many cell and tissue applications.

Another active area of research is using gold nanoparticles tuned to absorb
certain wavelengths of infrared light to heat and destroy cancerous tumors.
While the original nanoparticles are already in clinical trials, West recently
improved on her design by adding an extremely thin layer of hydrogels to the
surface that, when heated, lose their water content and release any molecules
(such as drugs) trapped within.

“Jennifer has made major contributions to biomaterials and the development of
nanoshells as a cancer therapeutic," Truskey said. “By translating her basic
research advances so that they are now improving human health, she has
achieved the ultimate aim of biomedical engineering.”

West has published more than 180 peer-reviewed journal articles and holds 19
patents, all of which have been licensed for commercialization. Her awards
include the Clemson Award from the Society for Biomaterials in 2015,
designation as a Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researcher in 2014, a CAREER
Award from the National Science Foundation in 1999, Texas Inventor of the Year
in 2010, a Rice University J.M. Chance Prize for Excellence in Teaching, the
2003 MIT Technology Review’s selection of 100 Top Young Innovators Award, and
designation as a Howard Hughes Medical Institute professor. She has also been
named an admiral of the Texas Navy.

“I am deeply honored by this very special recognition and proud to have worked
with such wonderful students, fellows and colleagues over the course of my
career,” West said. “I am also very thankful to have had wonderful mentors in
my life and to be part of the exciting Pratt community.”

**Kristina Johnson** became the dean of the Pratt School of Engineering in
1999 and led the school through a period of significant growth in both size
and quality through 2007. The undergraduate student body grew 20 percent while
graduate programs doubled in size. She oversaw the planning, funding and
construction of the 322,000-square-foot Fitzpatrick Center for
Interdisciplinary Engineering, Medicine and Applied Sciences. She also helped
the school's research expenditures triple and the endowment grow tenfold.

After eight successful years, Johnson left Duke to become provost at Johns
Hopkins University, the first woman to hold its second-ranking position. She
then became the undersecretary for energy at the United States Department of
Energy before stepping down in 2010 to found Cube Hydro—a company aimed at
furthering environmentally responsible hydroelectric energy by modernizing and
upgrading existing plants and powering previously unpowered dams.

**William A. Hawkins III** graduated from Duke in 1976 with degrees in
electrical and biomedical engineering. He was a member of the school’s Board
of Visitors from 2002-2011, serving as chair between 2009-2011, and was
appointed an adjunct professor of engineering in 2011.

Now a member of the Duke University Board of Trustees as well as the Duke
University Health System Board of Directors, Hawkins is lead director of
Immucor, Inc., a leading provider of transfusion and transplantation
diagnostic products worldwide.

Prior to joining Immucor in 2011, Hawkins served as chairman and CEO of
Medtronic, one of the world’s largest and most innovative medical technology
companies. He has also served as president and CEO of Novoste Corp. and held
senior leadership positions at American Home Products, Johnson & Johnson,
Guidant Corp., and Eli Lilly & Co.

“I am really thrilled that three of Pratt’s own have been recognized by their
peers with the highest honor accorded to engineers,” said Ravi Bellamkonda,
who has been named the next Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke effective August
1. “It is a testament to the scholarship and leadership that we associate with
Pratt and Duke.”

As NAE members, West, Johnson, and Hawkins will help carry out the academy’s
mission of providing engineering leadership in service to the nation. They
join more than 2,500 peer-elected members and foreign members in the NAE,
which serves as an advisor to the federal government and conducts independent
studies to examine important topics in engineering and technology.

In addition to West, NAE members on the Pratt School of Engineering faculty
include Robert Calderbank, Ingrid Daubechies, Earl Dowell, Henry Petroski and
Mark Wiesner.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

