

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# What Lives in the Rainforest?

November 19, 2020

In competition for the newest XPRIZE, Duke engineering students develop drone-
deployed tools to inventory the incredibly rich plant and animal life in
rainforest ecosystems

**Picturing Flora and Fauna**  
After advancing to the Ocean XPRIZE finals in 2018 and dipping its toes into
the ANA Avatar XPRIZE in 2019-20, Duke has its eyes on another XPRIZE—this
time, the $10 million Rainforest XPRIZE, which aims to catalogue the
astounding biodiversity thriving under the rainforest’s dense, near-
impenetrable canopy.

Associate Professor of electrical and computer engineering Martin Brooke is
again leading the Duke effort, alongside collaborator Stuart Pimm, the Doris
Duke Professor of Conservation Biology at the Nicholas School of the
Environment. The two are orchestrating small teams of students as they develop
drones that can deploy to identify and count plants and animals. One of those
teams this semester (Grayson Elias, ECE/CS ’21; Natasha von Seelen, ECE/CS
’21; Jacob Thomas, ECE ’22; and Umika Paul, ECE/CS ’21) plans to use infrared
cameras to identify expertly camouflaged birds and mammals.

“The IR imaging works best at night and in the early morning, before the trees
and ground get so warm that it’s difficult to distinguish animals from
background,” explained von Seelen. “It will be very useful when non-thermal-
photography drones cannot see very well. We are working on software that would
recognize areas with high heat signatures and then alert the drone pilot to
take a closer look and try to determine what kind of an animal it is.”

> The infrared sensor illuminated a nearby mourning dove that was hidden so
> well it was indiscernible to the naked eye.

The team took some test footage around their homes this semester, using the
infrared cameras. Elias captured footage of his dogs that let the team see
them as a python or anaconda would—as areas of active warmth in a cooler
environment. And von Seelen, in working to distinguish squirrels from their
arboreal background and track their motion, found that the infrared sensor
illuminated a nearby mourning dove that was hidden so well it was
indiscernible to the naked eye.

But cataloguing biodiversity isn’t limited to fauna; each thread of the
rainforest’s vegetative tapestry must be identified, too. Of the Duke students
working on this aspect of the challenge, half were on campus this semester,
and took charge of the drone that will one day deploy to take photos in a
rainforest ecosystem. Those students tested flight maneuvers and controls and
suggested settings that will one day help pilots navigate their drone through
the densely treed environment. The other two students, Carrie Hunner and Harry
Ross, both ECE/CS ’21, started developing a plant identification app, working
remotely from their home bases in Minnesota and New York City.

“We laid a really good foundation,” said Hunner. “We have a working app that
interfaces with Google Photos, letting the user select photos to show to the
identification algorithm. The user gets back a list and a score. For example,
‘There is a 50 percent chance that the plant you’re showing me is a rosy
periwinkle.’”

But Ross acknowledges that the identification algorithm they’re using was
trained on a limited dataset of plant images—a gap that’s sure to widen in the
rainforest, where one new species is discovered, on average, every two days.

“A possible extension for future work is to integrate a second API that lets
people crowdsource the plant ID,” said Ross. “You create posts about a
mysterious plant, and experienced naturalists can weigh in with what they
think the species might be.”

Ross acknowledges that the manual upload is time- and resource-intensive, and
presents yet another path for future students to explore. “The biggest hurdle
in automating is getting the photos from the drone to the human, remotely.
Right now there’s an SD card that must be removed. What happens when a drone
crashes in that nearly unnavigable terrain and can’t be retrieved?” asked
Ross.

**Listening for Clues**  
The Duke network encompasses nearly as many people as the Amazon has leaves
and branches, and two of them—Sam Kelly MEMS ‘18 and PhD candidate David
Haas—have been happy to serve as informal advisors to the Duke students as
they work through these kinds of challenges, particularly those related to
sampling and processing audio information.

Right now, the sound team is working to effectively compress and format all
the audio they do collect before writing the data to SD cards, where it can be
retrieved and analyzed for the chirps, whistles and hoots that give
researchers clues about the animals that shelter in the rainforest.

“It’s an ambitious project for people who have never done embedded programming
before,” said Kelly. “The undergraduates designed the architecture to sample
the audio the competition requires, at the correct frequency and memory. They
really delivered. And what’s even cooler is, now we’ve got them hooked on
embedded programming.”

> Conservationists desperately need easy-to-use, inexpensive tools to monitor
> the state of the environment—which is exactly what the Rainforest XPRIZE
> teams are producing.

Conservationists desperately need easy-to-use, inexpensive tools to monitor
the state of the environment—which is exactly what the Rainforest XPRIZE teams
are producing, said Kelly, who works at technology company Conservation X
Labs.

Though the XPRIZE focuses specifically on quickly cataloguing biodiversity,
the Duke team might be able to deliver additional insight into events that are
happening in real time if they can figure out how to process some of the data
onboard the drone. This could provide a valuable fringe benefit to the
ecosystem in question—picking up the sound of chainsaws, for example, or
hearing the roar of a fire, might trigger an alert to local authorities.
“And,” added Kelly, “the team will be able to reduce the exorbitant amount of
ambient noise data that would be otherwise be collected.”

“It’s really hard to create a scientific tool that’s both easy to use and
upholds the standards that science expects,” said Kelly. “If we can get this
out there, there’s a huge need for it. I’m really excited to see where it
goes.”

**Delivering Sound Traps**

  

  
Brooke has been a client for several First-Year Design teams that are helping
him get sound recorders and other longer-term recording devices like camera
traps into the rainforest. Those design teams have developed delivery
techniques that let the same drones that take the infrared and visual images
also drop sound recorders onto branches in the canopy. (Currently, researchers
must climb hundreds of feet into the air to attach these devices.) The
recently demonstrated drop-off of a camera trap device using a lightweight
Parrot Anfi drone (by first year students Lucas Ramirez, Ian Morales, Zachary
Kannam, and Ryan Wolfram) could usher in a new age of long-term canopy
research.

## Related News

May 01, 2020

### Teaching through Competition

September 04, 2019

### 'I Can Do This'—Duke’s First-Year Design Course Boosts Student Self-
Efficacy

March 07, 2018

### Duke Students Advance to Finals in $7 Million Ocean Discovery XPRIZE
Competition

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

