

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Wilson Awarded National Academy of Engineering’s Prestigious Russ Prize

January 7, 2015

Blake Wilson shares the 2015 Russ Prize with four others who also played
instrumental roles in the development of the cochlear implant.

_Editor's note: Blake Wilson E'74 will give a public talk on the development
of the modern cochlear implant at 5:00 p.m. Thursday, March 5, 2015, in
Baldwin Auditorium on Duke’s East Campus as the featured speaker of the Duke
Engineering 75th Anniversary Lecture, co-sponsored by Duke University’s Office
of the Provost, Pratt School of Engineering and School of Medicine. The
lecture and following reception are free and open to the community. **Learn
more and reserve a seat** (RSVP by Feb. 26, 2015)_

Blake S. Wilson, adjunct professor of biomedical engineering, electrical and
computer engineering, and surgery at Duke University and co-director of the
Duke Hearing Center, has been awarded the 2015 Fritz J. and Dolores H. Russ
Prize for “engineering cochlear implants that enable the deaf to hear.”

The National Academy of Engineering (NAE) announced today that Wilson would
share the 2015 Russ Prize with four others who also played instrumental roles
in the development of the cochlear implant. The prize, established in 1999 by
Ohio University with a gift from alumnus Fritz Russ and his wife, Dolores, is
a $500,000 award given biennially to honor bioengineering achievements that
significantly improve the human condition. It is considered the top prize in
the world for bioengineering.

The award will be presented at a gala dinner event on Feb. 24 to honor Blake
Wilson; Graeme M. Clark, laureate professor emeritus of the University of
Melbourne; Ingeborg J. Hochmair-Desoyer, CEO and CTO of MED-EL Medical
Electronics GmbH; Michael M. Merzenich, professor emeritus of the University
of California, San Francisco; and Erwin S. Hochmair, professor emeritus at the
Institute of Experimental Physics, University of Innsbruck.

“This year’s Russ Prize recipients personify how engineering transforms the
health and happiness of people across the globe,” said NAE President C.D. Mote
Jr. “The creators of the cochlear implant have improved remarkably the lives
of people everywhere who are hearing impaired.”

According to the National Institutes of Health, about 36 million adults in
America alone report some degree of hearing loss, ranging from difficulty
hearing some high-pitched sounds to total deafness. The development of the
cochlear implant (CI) provided new medical options to treat hearing loss by
translating sounds into electrical signals the brain can interpret and sending
those signals directly to the auditory nerve—bypassing damaged or absent
sensory hair cells in the inner ear. To date more than 320,000 people
worldwide have received a cochlear implant; cochlear implants have proven
especially beneficial in children.

Wilson began his work full-time on CIs in the 1980s when he developed the
“continuous interleaved sampling” system. This model made it possible for CI
recipients to understand words and sentences with far greater clarity than
before. Wilson’s breakthrough provided the basis for sound-processing
strategies used widely in today’s CIs and resulted in a rapid expansion in the
number of deaf and nearly deaf persons who have received a cochlear implant in
one or both ears. Today, the great majority of CI users can talk on phones and
follow conversations in relatively quiet environments.

“Blake Wilson has made seminal contributions to developing one of the greatest
advances of modern medicine,” said Tom Katsouleas, Vinik Dean of Duke’s Pratt
School of Engineering, who nominated Wilson for the award. “Bringing a person
from total or nearly complete deafness to highly useful hearing is a stunning
achievement that many thought would be impossible. The work of Blake and his
collaborators is a shining example of the power of engineering to address some
of humanity’s grandest challenges, and we are exceptionally proud to count him
as an alumnus and colleague.”

“Blake’s receipt of the Russ Prize is yet another example of the significant
impact of his achievements in improving the quality of life for individuals
all around the world, and importantly, demonstrates the enormous power
achieved when the worlds of engineering and medicine intersect,” said Nancy C.
Andrews, MD, PhD, dean, Duke University School of Medicine.

“I am thrilled to receive with my esteemed colleagues this singular honor,”
said Wilson in a recent interview. “We all stood on the broad shoulders of
great scientists, engineers and physicians who preceded us in our work, and we
all were helped mightily by our coworkers. I am so very grateful for the
spectacular education I received at Duke, which enabled me to do something
special later in life, and for the partnership of my many magnificent
colleagues at Duke and elsewhere who made our shared achievements possible. I
am lucky and grateful.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

