

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Window to the Gut's Brain

June 7, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Real-time view of enteric nervous system provides new way to study
gastrointestinal disorders

Duke researchers have developed a system that allows real-time optical and
electrical observations of the gut’s nervous system in a live animal.

And if you weren’t aware that the gut had its own nervous system, don’t worry,
you’re not alone.

“The first time I ever heard of the enteric nervous system was two years ago,
and I was like ‘What’s that?’” said Xiling Shen, associate professor of
biomedical engineering at Duke University and author of the study appearing
June 7 in Nature Communications. “Even with neurobiologists, their only
exposure to it is typically something like a half-page in a textbook. But it’s
actually very important.”

Consisting of five times more neurons than the spinal cord and often termed as
a “second brain,” the enteric nervous system is a mesh-like sheath of neurons
that controls the gastrointestinal tract. It regulates how food moves through
the digestive system and communicates potential problems to the immune system.
And while it has a direct line to both the brain and spinal cord, the enteric
system has the ability to direct the organs under its control independent of
either system.

Despite its importance, however, very little is known about the enteric
nervous system, such as how it responds to medications or what can go wrong
with it to cause disease.

“About one-quarter of the world’s population is affected by a functional
gastrointestinal disorder,” Shen said. “You’ve probably heard of the term
functional GI disorder, which encompasses diseases like irritable bowel
syndrome, constipation and incontinence. If you look at the physiology in
these diseases, the gut looks fine. It’s the nerves that are somehow
malfunctioning. And the reason the term includes so many diseases is because
we really don’t have any idea what’s going on with those nerves.”

Shen is looking to change that by literally installing an observation window.

In the new study, Shen implanted a transparent window made of tough
borosilicate glass into the skin over the stomachs of mice. With no skull or
bone structures to anchor the window, he needed to devise a 3D-printed
surgical insert for stabilization. The device prevents the intestines from
moving too much while maintaining normal digestive functions, allowing
researchers to look at the same spot over multiple days.

Being the first to get a live look at the enteric nervous system, Shen was not
about to waste the view. Because the gut can be a busy, noisy environment, he
devised a system to record both electrical and optical activity at the same
time -- also a first for the field.

The experiment uses transgenic mice with nerves that light up with a green hue
when firing. By using a transparent graphene sensor to obtain electrical
signals from the nerves, Shen gained an unobstructed view of the neural
activity.

The optical signal gives spatial resolution, allowing researchers to tell
which neuron is firing. The electrical signal provides time resolution, which
pins down the exact waveform of the firing neurons. Shen said the enteric
nervous system is now ready to be explored.

“So much is known about the brain and spinal cord because we can open them up,
look at them, record the neural activities and map their behaviors,” said
Shen. “Now we can start doing the same for the gut. We can see how it reacts
to different drugs, neurotransmitters or diseases. We have even artificially
activated individual neurons in the gut with light, which nobody has ever done
before. This innovation will help us understand this ‘dark’ nervous system
that we currently have completely no idea about.”

This research was supported by the DARPA Electrical Prescriptions Program
(N66001-15-2-4059) and the National Institutes of Health (R01GM114254).

“Simultaneous Optical and Electrical In Vivo Analysis of the Enteric Nervous
System.” Nikolai Rakhilin, Bradley Barth, Jiahn Choi, Nini L. Muñoz, Subhash
Kulkarni, Jason Jones, David Small, Yu-Ting Cheng, Yingqiu Cao, Colleen
LaVinka, Edwin Kan, Xinzhong Dong, Michael Spencer, Pankaj Pasricha, Nozomi
Nishimura, Xiling Shen. DOI: 10.1038/NCOMMS11800

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

