

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Wireless Device Converts "Lost" Energy into Electric Power

November 7, 2013

Using inexpensive materials configured and tuned to capture microwave signals,
Duke researchers have designed a power-harvesting device with efficiency
similar to that of modern solar panels

By Karyn Hede

Using inexpensive materials configured and tuned to capture microwave signals,
researchers at Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering have designed a
power-harvesting device with efficiency similar to that of modern solar
panels.

The device wirelessly converts the microwave signal to direct current voltage
capable of recharging a cell phone battery or other small electronic device,
according to a report appearing in the journal _Applied Physics Letters_ in
December 2013. (It is now available online.)

It operates on a similar principle to solar panels, which convert light energy
into electrical current. But this versatile energy harvester could be tuned to
harvest the signal from other energy sources, including satellite signals,
sound signals or Wi-Fi signals, the researchers say.

The key to the power harvester lies in its application of metamaterials,
engineered structures that can capture various forms of wave energy and tune
them for useful applications.

Undergraduate engineering student Allen Hawkes, working with graduate student
Alexander Katko and lead investigator Steven Cummer, professor of electrical
and computer engineering, designed an electrical circuit capable of harvesting
microwaves.

They used a series of five fiberglass and copper energy conductors wired
together on a circuit board to convert microwaves into 7.3V of electricity. By
comparison, Universal Serial Bus (USB) chargers for small electronic devices
provide about 5V.

"We were aiming for the highest energy efficiency we could achieve," said
Hawkes. “We had been getting energy efficiency around 6 to 10 percent, but
with this design we were able to dramatically improve energy conversion to 37
percent, which is comparable to what is achieved in solar cells.”

“It’s possible to use this design for a lot of different frequencies and types
of energy, including vibration and sound energy harvesting,” Katko said.
“Until now, a lot of work with metamaterials has been theoretical. We are
showing that with a little work, these materials can be useful for consumer
applications.”

For instance, a metamaterial coating could be applied to the ceiling of a room
to redirect and recover a Wi-Fi signal that would otherwise be lost, Katko
said. Another application could be to improve the energy efficiency of
appliances by wirelessly recovering power that is now lost during use.

“The properties of metamaterials allow for design flexibility not possible
with ordinary devices like antennas,” said Katko. “When traditional antennas
are close to each other in space they talk to each other and interfere with
each other’s operation. The design process used to create our metamaterial
array takes these effects into account, allowing the cells to work together.”

With additional modifications, the researchers said the power-harvesting
metamaterial could potentially be built into a cell phone, allowing the phone
to recharge wirelessly while not in use. This feature could, in principle,
allow people living in locations without ready access to a conventional power
outlet to harvest energy from a nearby cell phone tower instead.

“Our work demonstrates a simple and inexpensive approach to electromagnetic
power harvesting,” said Cummer. “The beauty of the design is that the basic
building blocks are self-contained and additive. One can simply assemble more
blocks to increase the scavenged power.”

For example, a series of power-harvesting blocks could be assembled to capture
the signal from a known set of satellites passing overhead, the researchers
explained. The small amount of energy generated from these signals might power
a sensor network in a remote location such as a mountaintop or desert,
allowing data collection for a long-term study that takes infrequent
measurements.

The research was supported by a Multidisciplinary University Research
Initiative from the Army Research Office (Contract No. W911NF-09-1-0539).

An open access copy of the original report is freely available from Duke
University for those who do not have access to _Applied Physics Review._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

