

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Women’s History Month: Reflections from Duke Women

March 4, 2020

_Cate Brinson: "It's critical that we provide positive role models"_

_FromWorking@Duke_

The idea of celebrating Women’s History Month is rooted in education.

In 1978, the Education Task Force of Sonoma County, California, organized a
“Women’s History Week,” according to the National Women’s History Museum. The
idea ignited similar celebrations across the county that sparked a movement
for national recognition.

President Jimmy Carter issued a proclamation in 1980 declaring the week of
March 8 “National Women’s History Week.” Seven years later, Congress passed
“Public Law 100-9” designating March as “Women’s History Month.”

Today, women make up roughly 62 percent of the education, legal, community
service, media and arts industries, and 73 percent of health practioner and
technical occupations. At Duke, women comprise 66 percent of the workforce.

To commemorate Women’s History Month, MEMS Chair Cate Brinson was among seven
Duke women in leadership who provided some reflections:

**WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE IMPROVED FOR WOMEN IN THE WORKPLACE?**

**Cate Brinson  
Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Distinguished Professor and Chair of
Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science**

Cate Brinson achieved a lot of firsts in her career.

She was the first woman to get a Ph.D. in applied mechanics at the California
Institute of Technology. At Northwestern University’s Department of Mechanical
Engineering, she was the first female faculty member, first tenured female
faculty member and, later, its first female chair. She is now the first female
chair of Duke’s Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Department.

“In retrospect, I look back and realize aspects of that progression were
difficult and strange,” Brinson said. “I was at the front of this weird
boundary for women.”

Still, she wishes for greater parity between men and women who earn
engineering degrees.

Women earned nearly 22 percent of engineering bachelor’s degrees nationwide in
2018, up from 18 percent in 2009, according to the American Society for
Engineering Education. At Duke, women currently make up a significantly higher
percentage of the engineering student body than the national average—37
percent, versus 23 percent nationally.

> “There weren’t a lot of women for me to see in mechanical engineering
> positions when I was growing up. It’s difficult to imagine yourself
> achieving something if you haven’t seen someone else do it.”

While the slow increase is positive, Brinson said engineering can do better.

“Both mechanical engineering and materials science are richly diverse fields
with a wealth of fascinating and creative applications in design, robotics,
healthcare devices and energy,” she said. “We need to do a better job of
attracting and retaining women in these important and interesting fields. At
the same time, it is critical that we provide positive role models for our
current and prospective female students.”

One of Brinson’s first mentors, Katherine Faber, the Simon Ramo Professor of
Materials Science at the California Institute of Technology, was among the
first female faculty members in engineering Brinson saw that also had a
family.

It was always a goal for Brinson, who has four children, to be successful in
her profession and home life.

“There weren’t a lot of women for me to see in mechanical engineering
positions when I was growing up,” said Brinson, who joined Duke in 2017. “It’s
difficult to imagine yourself achieving something if you haven’t seen someone
else do it.”

READ MORE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

