

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Management Grad Introduces Readers to 'Wonder Women of Science'

April 29, 2021

Meet Tiera Fletcher—2021 online Duke Master of Engineering Management
graduate, Boeing aerospace engineer and author of a new book about women
breaking barriers

Tiera Fletcher is a busy woman. Besides working as a structural design
engineer for Boeing, she helps run a motivational speaker organization “Rocket
With The Fletchers,” is wrapping up Duke’s Master of Engineering Management
program, and has now released her first book, “Wonder Women of Science.”

Published by Candlewick Press to starred reviews from Booklist and Kirkus, the
book profiles twelve science superstars, telling in their own words of their
fascinating work as well as their childhoods and paths traveled. Their careers
range from computer scientist to microbiologist to unique specialties that
didn’t exist before they were created. Written with upper-elementary and
middle-school readers in mind, the book aims to surprise and inspire not only
die-hard science fans, but also those who don’t (yet!) think of themselves as
scientists.

Duke Engineering recently caught up with Fletcher for a brief Q&A, not only
about her book, but about her experience as a Duke engineering management
student.

## Did you have any science idols growing up?

Former astronaut Mae Jemison has been my role model since I first learned
about her in elementary school. As the first African American woman in space,
she inspired me to fight for my dream to become an aerospace engineer. When I
looked at her, I saw myself.

## How did you go about selecting the “science superstars” to include in your
book?

Research! My co-author Ginger Rue and I searched for women who were pioneers
in their respective fields, from different backgrounds and walks of life. We
had the pleasure of interviewing twelve amazing female scientists currently
breaking barriers in their respective fields of science, technology,
engineering and mathematics. Each woman is making life-changing discoveries
today!

## What do you hope readers of your book will take away from it?

In addition to sharing their stories, each scientist teaches the reader about
important topics in their respective field of science. I hope that by reading
the journeys of these amazing scientists, readers can relate to them on a
personal level and realize that they too can make their dreams become a
reality--and learn a great amount of science along the way!

## How has the process of writing and creating this book influenced you?

The women included in this book inspire me in so many ways. As a young African
American female rocket scientist, I have a deep level of respect and
understanding of the experiences of these female scientists. Each of their
stories inspire me to do more to pave the way for more women to break into
STEM fields and make an impact in human history.

## Why did you choose to enroll in the Duke MEM program?

My husband and fellow aerospace engineer, Myron Fletcher, earned a Master of
Engineering Management degree from Duke in 2017. He raved about the program so
much, I had to check it out. The Duke MEM program is one of the top
engineering management master's program in the country and after undergoing
the program myself, I now know why. The online program is structured perfectly
for full-time working professionals. In my experience, I have learned so much
over the past couple of years that would have taken me many years to acquire
through my career alone.

## What career aspirations do you hope the Duke MEM program will help you
achieve?

As an aerospace engineer currently, I aspire to transition into management in
the next step of my career. With the tools that I have acquired through the
program, I am sure that the Duke MEM program will help me achieve that goal.

## What has been your favorite part of your experience thus far?

My favorite part of my experience has been interacting with the amazing
students in my cohort. They carry so many different professional talents and
perspectives that have contributed to the learning experiences in all courses
that I have taken.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

