

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Wrapping Up 18 Months of Research

May 6, 2020

From measuring tiny forces in cells to analyzing data beamed down from
satellites, the 2020 Pratt Research Fellows have pursued in-depth engineering
research as undergraduates

The research subject was complex vortices of wind; the goal, to find the
optimal arrangement of wind turbines.

For this Pratt Research Fellows project, faculty advisor Donald Bliss needed
someone in his lab who was good at visualizing how systems work together.
Katie VanderKam brought just the right insights, thanks to her mechanical
engineering studies and her other passionate pursuit.

> 21 members of the Duke Engineering Class of 2020 are Pratt Research Fellows

“I am a dancer and I have choreographed a bunch. So, I was used to picturing
formations, such as people moving around together on a stage,” said VanderKam,
a Pratt Research Fellow and member of the Class of 2020. “I thought that is
kind of how we would picture vortices moving around each other behind a wind
turbine. I saw that connection and that’s why this project was interesting to
me.”

The Pratt Research Fellows Program is a competitive fellowship that provides
opportunities for Duke Engineering undergraduates to do intensive research
with faculty during three semesters and a summer.

Typically, Pratt Fellows graduate with departmental distinction and other
honors. Many Pratt Research Fellows go on to medical school or PhD programs at
Duke and other leading research universities.

Follow the links below to learn more about VanderKam and three other Pratt
Research Fellows in the Class of 2020.

To learn more about the fellowship program, and find links to final Pratt
Research Fellow presentations, visit pratt.duke.edu/pratt-fellows

## Jose Rivera

Measuring Forces Inside Cells

Rivera, a biomedical engineering major, was inspired by a course in which he
learned how different muscles in the human body control blood flow. As a Pratt
Research Fellow, he joined the laboratory of Brenton Hoffman, an associate
professor in BME working to develop ways to measure the tiny related forces
found inside cells.

Read Jose’s story »

## Tiff Wei

Analyzing Satellite Data to Understand Ecosystems

Satellites in orbit over Earth send down precious data about the status of
surface ecosystems, including incoming solar radiation, leaf area and
vegetation cover. Wei’s research, under the mentorship of CEE professor Ana P.
Barros, a member of the National Academy of Engineering, looked at that data
to analyze prospects for agriculture in southern Africa.

Read Tiff’s story »

## Matthew Salvino

Applying Machine Learning to Health Care

Machine learning and artificial intelligence are powerful tools for engineers
looking to solve essential problems in many fields, including medicine.
Working with Duke ECE’s Lawrence Carin, a globally recognized AI expert and
Duke’s vice president for research, Salvino worked on projects to speed the
detection of diabetic retinopathy.

Read Matthew’s story »

## Katie VanderKam

Improving the Efficiency of Wind Farms

VanderKam’s research focused on vertical-axis turbines, which spin
perpendicularly to the ground. Her advisor, Duke MEMS’s Donald Bliss, is an
expert in fluid dynamics, particularly vortex wakes.

Read Katie’s story »

More on Pratt Research Fellows

## Related News

March 01, 2020

### Infinite Opportunities: Pratt Research Fellows

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

