

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Xiaoyue Ni: Designing Smart Materials and Wearable Technologies to Improve
Health

August 18, 2020 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

New faculty member Xiaoyue Ni develops programmable materials and wearable
electronic devices to advance precision medicine and health monitoring in the
digital age

Xiaoyue Ni, an expert in digital health devices at the interface between
micro/nanomechanics, bio-integrated electronics and artificial intelligence
(AI), will join Duke’s Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science (MEMS) beginning November 1, 2020. She also will have a part-time
appointment in the Duke School of Medicine’s Department of Biostatistics &
Bioinformatics.

## Xiaoyue Ni

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science (November 1,
2020)

**Hometown:** Chengdu, China

**Alma Maters:** Marietta College (BS, physics and math); California Institute
of Technology (MS, PhD in materials science)

**Representative Publication:** Lee, K., Ni, X. et al. Nature Biomedical
Engineering, Feb. 2020, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41551-019-0480-6.

**Fun Facts:** Avid snowboarder and hiker, considering getting a puppy

With her focus on developing human-centered materials intelligence — that is,
materials that can sense a human signal, transform and then adapt according to
human actions or status — Ni will be part of the vibrant community of Duke
engineers designing smart biomaterials and wearable technology for use in
diagnostics, treatment and monitoring of human health.

Ni comes to Duke from the Querrey Simpson Institute for Bioelectronics at
Northwestern University, where she worked as a postdoctoral researcher in the
lab of John A. Rogers, a world-renowned bioelectronics pioneer. There, she
developed a wireless wearable device for continuous, noninvasive monitoring of
human body mechanics and tissue-level diagnosis that she will continue to
refine in her new role at Duke.

The project incorporates mechanics and acoustics to comfortably and seamlessly
capture signals that reflect bioactivities in the body, as well as signal
processing and AI algorithms to tease out important biometrics from “noise” —
for example, detecting the “super tiny ripples” of a pulse while a person is
running and jumping, Ni said.

Since April 2020, she has worked on a project using the technology to monitor
symptoms of hospitalized patients with COVID-19.

The wireless device, made of serpentine interconnected circuits and soft
polymer encapsulation that attaches to the skin of a patient’s suprasternal
notch (the anatomical location at the base of the throat directly above the
breastbone), contains a sensor that acts like a digital stethoscope. It counts
coughs, measures how hard and loud they are and listens to other vital body
sounds, like heartbeat and respiration patterns. It has the potential to even
distinguish between a “dry” or “wet” cough and detect differences in the
source of the cough deeper into the lungs that signal worsening of disease.

Ni also intends to explore the use of these sensors to probe tissue mechanics
— for example, to assess and monitor muscle stiffness using multiple
geosensors on the skin.

"It's like seismology, but on the surface of the body," she said.

In addition to these epidermal electronics, Ni focuses on developing
programmable matter — creating advanced metastructures for active and smart
materials.

## WHY DUKE?

> "I really like how the whole MEMS department appreciates and pursues the
> fundamental aspects of mechanics and materials science. I wanted to come to
> Duke also because of the medical school and its proximity to engineering
> sciences — just a short walk across the street. I can easily expect to
> establish close clinical collaboration and to explore cutting-edge
> biomedical applications on a daily basis."
>
> —Xiaoyue Ni

“During my PhD, I worked on metals and studied the complex deformation
microstructures in natural, single crystalline materials like copper,” she
said. “I try now to make artificial lattices and defects that I can fully
control and play with. Letting the ‘robotic’ microstructures evolve following
designed mechanisms will provide us rich insights for creating novel
intelligent materials that can have varieties of unconventional mechanical
capabilities.”

Ni’s quest for these new materials relate directly to the biomedical aspect of
her research, she says, because it provides ways to engineer materials that
closely mimic mechanics of the human body or their functions.

Ultimately, Ni said, these will help improve the performance of wearable
sensors by providing feedback to inform the design of the flexible electronics
and biomaterials. Some “smart” materials could even morph or adapt themselves
to different positions of the body, for example, a necessary feature for
consistent data collection and the patient’s comfort.

“My passion is in mechanical behavior of materials, precision measurement and
smart structures,” she said. “I was attracted to Duke in part because I really
like how the whole MEMS department appreciates and pursues the fundamental
aspects of mechanics and materials science.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

