

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Xiling Shen: An Engineering Approach to Biomedical Challenges

February 24, 2015

Using engineering principles to understand the complexity of stem cells and
cancer

Xiling Shen will join the biomedical engineering department in Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering in July 2015. An electrical circuit
and computer systems expert by training, Shen applies his engineering
background to understand the complex regulatory networks behind biological
systems and diseases.

Medical research has long taken a reductionist approach to health care, Shen
said. For example, researchers often focus on finding “the” culprit protein
that gives rise to a disease, so that the protein can be targeted to produce a
cure. Many challenging diseases such as cancer, however, are caused by complex
interactions among a network of many proteins and RNAs as well as changes to
their physical environment—which can’t be fully understood outside of that
context.

Shen’s studies focus on creating both experimental and computational tools to
understand diseases at more sophisticated levels. He also uses engineering
concepts such as circuit and control theories to understand how a single adult
stem cell is programmed to form a whole organ, and how that program can go
awry during the development and maintenance of different tissues.

“We need better computer and animal models that accurately reproduce the
complexity of biological systems and human diseases,” said Shen, who joins
Duke from Cornell University. “Better models can better recapitulate the
physiological environments seen by our own cells, which produce better studies
and results.”

Shen earned his bachelor’s, master’s and doctorate degrees from Stanford
University, before conducting postdoctoral research at the University of
California–Berkeley. He then joined Cornell University’s faculty as an
assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and biomedical
engineering in 2009. He also worked as an analog and wireless circuit designer
at Barcelona Design and Texas Instruments between 2001 and 2004.

One example of Shen’s work is a recent study that revealed for the first time
that small RNAs called microRNAs instruct cancer stem cells to divide in two
different ways. Besides a division process that results in two cancer stem
cells, his laboratory discovered that they can also divide into one cancer
stem cell and one tissue cell. This allows tumors the flexibility to grow
while maintaining a steady supply of stem cells. Such microRNAs can be
therapeutically target to disrupt tumor growth.

Another recent study discovered that cancerous cells hijack mechanisms
originating in the immune system to catch a ride to different organs during
metastasis. Leveraging this discovery, Shen’s laboratory injected engineered
human cancer cells into mouse embryos. These mice grew up recognizing human
cancer cells as their own, which led to the growth of human tumors in the
organs where they would naturally occur.

“In the past, cancerous human cells have just been injected under the skin of
mice to grow tumors for testing,” said Shen, who hopes that realistic disease
models will enable researchers to find better cancer drugs that have been
elusive so far. “But that microenvironment is completely different from those
of various organs, and that can play a huge role in how well the tumor grows
and how well treatments work. Genetically engineering switches into cancerous
cells to direct them to the proper organ will provide a more accurate model
for testing.”

Shen sees the close physical proximity and institutional ties between Duke
Medicine and the biomedical engineering department as a potential boon for his
research. As an engineer, Shen says he isn’t satisfied with simply discovering
new things; he wants to take his work from bench to bedside to have a large
societal impact.

And he believes Duke is a special place that can make that happen.

“The collaborative environment at Duke is unique—it’s one step ahead of its
many peer institutions,” said Shen. “People at Duke have the mentality of
pushing the boundaries of new frontiers and are willing to take risks. That’s
how you do science and that’s how the next great discovery will be made.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

