

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Yao Receives IEEE Photonics Society 2019 Young Investigator Award

December 17, 2018

Yao recognized for his innovative work in the field of photoacoustic
tomography

Junjie Yao, an assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University, received the 2019 Young Investigator Award from the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Photonics Society. Established to
honor a researcher who has made outstanding technical contributions to
photonics prior to their 35th birthday, the award includes a certificate of
recognition and an honorarium of $2,000.

“I’m very happy to represent photoacoustic imaging within the larger optical
imaging field,” says Yao. “Previous awardees have completed impressive work
within their respective fields, so I’m honored to be recognized with the Young
Investigator Award.”

Yao is a pioneer in the field of photoacoustic tomography (PAT), a powerful
imaging technology that uses short laser pulses and ultrasound waves to create
detailed biomedical images. While other imaging technologies, like X-ray, CT
scans or MRI provide larger anatomical images, photoacoustic tomography allows
researchers to quickly and precisely image everything from a single cell to an
entire body. In addition to this improved scalability, PAT allows researchers
to gather functional and molecular information about their tissue and cellular
targets.

In 2015, Yao helped develop the world’s fastest photoacoustic imaging system,
allowing researchers to visualize how the brain consumes oxygen. In his
current role at Duke, Yao and his team are using the technique for functional
brain studies to examine neurons, blood vessels and other structures in the
brain. Their end goal is to create devices that animal models can wear,
allowing researchers to use PAT to precisely image their brains as they
respond and interact with various external stimuli in real time.

In addition to his neuro-based work, Yao and his colleagues are using the
technique in clinical studies to track circulating tumor cells in the
bloodstream. They are currently working to miniaturize PAT into wearable
devices that can potentially seek and destroy malignant tumor cells,
preventing the cancer cells from metastasizing to another area in the body.

“This technology really took off in the early 2000s, and there are still a lot
of technical challenges that need to be addressed,” says Yao. “But it’s
exciting to be in Duke BME and collaborate with the medical school on a clear
purpose, which is advancing this technology towards the milestone of providing
patient care. Duke has provided a very strong platform for our team to
accomplish this goal, and I’m thrilled our work is being recognized.”

Yao will receive his award in September at the annual IEEE Photonics
Conference in San Antonio, Texas. For more information, visit:
https://www.photonicssociety.org/awards/young-investigator-award

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

