

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# YouTube Special: Fundamental Concepts in Engineering

November 10, 2020

In a new educational series, Duke faculty explain basic engineering principles
in 10 minutes or less

Engineers see the world as an endless string of challenges waiting to be
solved—from designing sound buildings and safe bridges to advancing medicine,
space exploration, automation and advanced computing, to name just a few
examples.

Despite the incredibly wide range and complexity of engineering applications,
all stem from relatively basic principles—the building blocks for engineers.
In a new video series for YouTube, some of Duke Engineering’s best teachers
take the mic, explaining concepts including rocket science and reverse osmosis
to a general audience in just ten minutes or less.

If you’re interested in getting a taste of what engineering is all about,
check out the episodes below:

When approaching an engineering problem, Professor Linda Franzoni says it’s
important to first observe the system in question. What do you already know?
What do you need to understand? From there, Franzoni demonstrates how to
mathematically describe the system.

_Force, lift, drag, thrust._ Mechanical engineer Greg Twiss explains how these
principles influence a rocket’s centers of gravity and pressure, determining
whether the rocket achieves a stable flight path or goes tumbling back to
earth.

Computed tomography—or “CT”—scans let doctors look at the inside of our bodies
in high resolution. Duke biomedical engineer Libby Bucholz shows how this is
possible, and why many different types of engineers and scientists must work
together to obtain a usable image.

Duke Civil and Environmental Engineering faculty member David Schaad explains
how engineers overdesign structures like roads, bridges, and buildings to
prevent failure and protect human health and the environment.

Clean drinking water is something we take for granted in the U.S., but more
than a billion people around the world lack access. Duke civil and
environmental engineer David Schaad explains why water quality is critical to
human civilization, and how we can treat water using a process called reverse
osmosis.

Everyone uses computers, but few of us understand how they actually work. Duke
electrical and computer engineer Tyler Bletsch pops the hood of a desktop
computer to show its components and discuss its design.

The first step of computer programming is writing an algorithm. Duke
electrical and computer engineers Genevieve Lipp and Drew Hilton show how to
work examples using LEGO blocks, and explain why doing it from scratch is key.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

