

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Zooming in on Neuronal Behavior

October 27, 2019

With novel approaches to studying neurons, Yiyang Gong and Michael Tadross
seek to understand the body’s most complicated organ

There are more than 86 billion neurons in the brain. These cells communicate
by sending electrical and chemical signals across pathways and are responsible
for controlling everything from simple movement to the processing and storing
of complex thoughts and memories. The sheer enormity of this neural network
makes the brain a difficult frontier for exploration, but Michael Tadross and
Yiyang Gong, two faculty in Duke University’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering and recipients of the NIH Young Innovator Award, are using
distinct approaches to decipher the body’s most complex organ.

#### A Molecular GPS to Target Neurons

Michael Tadross, MD, is an assistant professor in Duke BME, where his lab uses
a novel technology dubbed DART, or Drugs Acutely Restricted by Tethering, to
deliver pharmaceuticals to specific cells within the brain. By harnessing
DART, Tadross and his lab hope to develop a better understanding of how drugs
work in the brain.

“Drugs have been really important in the history of neuroscience and
neuropsychiatric disease, and I think we take it for granted that brain
diseases are biological diseases. There was a time when that wasn’t widely
believed to be true,” says Tadross. “The turning point came in the 1950s,
after drugs were accidentally discovered to have an effect on disorders like
depression.”

This discovery set off a race to discover exactly what these drugs are binding
to in the brain, with the goal of better understanding the fundamental basis
of brain disease. More than 60 years later, researchers still lack this deeper
understanding.

But DART could address these long standing questions by enabling Tadross and
his team to target drugs to one type of neuron at a time.

Drugs today are unable to discriminate between different groups of cells. For
example, when someone is treated for a mood-related disorder like depression,
they are prescribed a drug called an SSRI. These drugs target a receptor that
reabsorbs the chemical messenger serotonin, a neurotransmitter that plays a
role in mood. SSRIs block these receptors, boosting the amount of serotonin in
the brain.

The problem with this approach is that there can be thousands to millions of
cells that express the same receptor, so when you take a drug, it affects all
of those cells at the same time, often leading to a complex set of effects.
While SSRIs, for example, may effectively treat depression, they can also have
a negative effect on anxiety.

“There has already been a lot of work tailored toward locally infusing drugs
into specific parts of the brain, like the amygdala or the prefrontal cortex,”
says Tadross. “But DART allows you to do that to a far greater degree of
specificity.”

DART works by genetically programming specific cell types to express a virus
that acts like a GPS beacon. This beacon, made of a protein found in bacteria,
coats the surface of target cells, and attracts drugs loaded with a special
homing device. When a drug is introduced into the system, it’s captured by
this beacon and creates a locally high concentration of the drug.

“There is a universal on-off switch for every drug, and that’s the dose,” says
Tadross.

“The homing device and GPS beacon are so efficient that the concentration of
the drug on the cells of interest accumulates to become 1,000 times higher
than anywhere else within a few minutes, so it’s only acting where you want it
to. The simplicity of that idea allows it to work for virtually any drug.”

Tadross and his lab are using DART to untangle the mysteries of the human
brain, starting with movement disorders like Parkinson’s disease. The team has
focused their efforts on the striatum, a structure in the basal ganglia, which
helps control speech, movement and posture. Among the different cell types in
the striatum are D1 and D2 cells, which are tightly intermingled, but
communicate to different brain regions.

In Parkinson’s disease models, cells that produce the neurotransmitter
dopamine begin to die off, which results in less dopamine being sent into the
basal ganglia. To compensate for this drop in dopamine, the brain tries to
rewire itself by altering signals carried by the neurotransmitter glutamate,
creating an imbalance.

To explore the role of glutamate in Parkinson’s disease, Tadross and his lab
worked with a Parkinson’s mouse model. These animals have difficulty moving,
develop a curved posture, and can only turn in one direction. Rather than
treat the disorder by increasing dopamine (the standard treatment), they used
DART to stop the D2 type of neuron from compensating by delivering a glutamate
antagonist specifically to these cells in the striatum. The animal’s movement
dramaticallyimproved. Remarkably, this improvement was only seen when the drug
was targeted exclusively to D2 cells; delivering the drug to both D1 and D2
cells had no benefit.

“At first we were surprised to see such a dramatic effect, since we knew that
glutamate antagonists have historically never worked to treat Parkinson’s. In
retrospect, it made perfect sense. You can think of it like a seesaw where
there is an imbalance in the circuit; targeting a drug to just one of the
cells is a great way to rebalance the seesaw,” says Tadross. “There are still
many questions left to answer, and we’re now using newer DARTs to study how
different neurotransmitters contribute to this disorder.”

Beyond investigating movement disorders, Tad ross and his team are interested
in using DART to study issues like addiction, especially as it pertains to
opioids. In 2018 alone, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
reported that more than 68,000 people died from drug overdoses in the United
States, and opioids were responsible for a majority of these deaths. The
Tadross lab hopes to use their technology to examine which cells in the brain
are the most helpful for pain relief and which cells are driving addiction.

“Every drug has some good things and bad things associated with it, but while
there hasn’t been another drug that’s been able to match the pain-relief
benefits of opioids, these drugs are so dangerous and addictive that their
costs have outweighed their benefits,” says Tadross. “Our hope is to use DART
to better understand how we can alleviate pain without introducing those
negative side effects.”

“Wouldn’t it be great to understand how they work and finally develop a
therapy that was designed on purpose rather than accidentally?” asks Tadross.
“We don’t know the answers to those big questions, but we now have the tools
that can point us in the right direction.”

#### Lighting Up the Brain's Activity

When Yiyang Gong describes has lab as interdisciplinary, he’s not
exaggerating. His team creates tools at the intersection of neurobiology,
optics and engineering. Gong is an assistant professor in Duke University’s
Department of Biomedical Engineering, and his lab studies brain circuitry by
recording, perturbing and controlling brain activity in various situations.

“Our goal is to record neural activity in novel ways,” says Gong. “Our lab
uses interdisciplinary techniques to understand how neurons communicate with
each other. We’re achieving this using sensors that we developed that flash in
response to neural signals, and pairing that with microscopy tools that help
us record those flashes.”

Neurons generate and communicate messages partly by changing their voltage.
These electrical signals can be measured as single pulses from a neuron called
an action potential, or as oscillating waves of activity from a group of
neurons working together.

Gong and his lab have engineered voltage sensors made from pieces of DNA that
can be delivered to target neurons using a virus. Once the virus is in place,
the DNA encodes a protein that sits on the cell membrane and flashes in
response to the neuron’s changing voltage. By genetically targeting different
types of neurons with his sensor, Gong hopes to understand how these cell
types oscillate together and contribute to different types of brainwaves.

Since their inception, Gong has been able to use these sensors in cell
cultures, intact tissues and even live animal models. Now, the lab aims to
improve these sensors by both increasing their speed and differentiating them
by introducing multiple colors.

“That second point is especially important, because we’d like to see how
neuron 1 communicates with neuron 2, or how population 1 communicates with
population 2,” says Gong. “These insights could help reveal the neural origin
of complex actions like learning, remembering and decision-making.”

In addition to developing these genetic sensors, Gong and his team are
exploring how they can advance microscopy tools to record their flashes.
Previously, researchers have developed tools that can measure a few action
potentials a second. According to Gong, there hasn’t been a push to speed up
the imaging tools because that’s as fast as traditional optical sensors for
neural activity have responded.

“With the advent of the genetically encoded voltage sensors, we also needed to
develop really fast microscopy on the same timescales,” says Gong. “Our goal
is to develop faster versions of fluorescence microscopes that can still image
large portions of the brain.”

The Gong lab is also working on new methods to help process their incoming
data. In collaboration with Sina Farsiu, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Associate
Professor of Engineering at Duke, Gong has developed an automated process that
can rapidly gather and process neuronal signals for real-time behavioral
studies.

Currently, identifying neurons in recordings is a painstaking process. The
most accurate method involves a human analyst circling every ‘spark’ they see
in a recording, often requiring them to stop and rewind the video until every
targeted neuron has been identified. This process, called segmentation, is
challenging and time-consuming, and a researcher can spend anywhere from four
to 24 hours working on a 30-minute recording.

But the new algorithm developed by Gong and Farsiu can accurately identify and
segment neurons in mere minutes. “Data analysts have spent hours and hours
processing minutes of data, and that’s created a bottleneck in neuroscience
that’s been a problem for a long time. But our algorithm can process a
30-minute video in 20 to 30 minutes,” says Gong. “We were also able to
generalize its performance, so it can operate equally well if we need to
segment neurons from another layer of the brain with different neuron size or
densities.”

Gong is already using this new technique to study the relationship between
neural activity and different behaviors in mice. By understanding which
neurons fire during specific activities, his lab could learn how researchers
can manipulate brain activity to modify behavior.

“The overall idea is that we can combine the technologies to not only do the
overall data processing applications in the near future, but to use this tech
in the far future to understand what the brain is doing in real time,” says
Gong. “Neuroscience is a very cool discipline, and my lab allows us to take a
lot of engineering concepts and apply them to the great unknown of brain
activity.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

