Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# PhD—Doctoral Study in Electrical & Computer Engineering

Duke ECE offers highly motivated doctoral students the opportunity to develop
research skills in our uniquely interdisciplinary environment

Our PhD students undertake ambitious projects with global impact, in areas
including machine learning, cyberphysical systems, smart sensing,
metamaterials and quantum computing.

We provide amazing opportunities for our students—to publish with their
faculty adviser, to present research at professional conferences, and to
explore their field in a highly collaborative, cross-disciplinary working
environment.

  * **__  
#12**  
national university

  * ​ ** __  
#6**  
AI and machine learning research in the U.S.

  * ​ ** __  
#3**  
computer engineering research productivity in the U.S.

  * **__  
Top 20**  
graduate computer engineering program in the U.S.

_Sources: U.S. News, NeurIPS Publication Index, Academic Analytics_

## WHY CHOOSE DUKE?

### \+ World-Class Research

Direct admission to a research group allows PhD students to engage immediately
with Duke ECE faculty members, working to cultivate the learning, thinking and
problem-solving abilities needed to adapt, to develop and to exercise
responsible leadership through times of rapid change. PhD research is fully
funded, and our students also receive conference and travel support.

Academic curricular groups include:

  * Computer Engineering
  * Engineering Physics
  * Microelectronics, Photonics and Nanotechnology
  * Signal and Information Processing

Research centers include:

  * Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics
  * Center for Metamaterials and Integrated Plasmonics (CMIP)
  * Coded Aperature Miniature Mass Spectrometer for Environmental Sensing
    (CAMMS-ES)
  * Error-corrected Universal Reconfigurable Ion-trap Quantum Archetype
    (EURIQA)

### \+ Day One Mentorship

Advising and early introduction to research and to your research community are
hallmarks of the Duke ECE PhD experience. We believe in mentorship from Day
One!

The process of finding your research adviser begins before you are admitted.
Once you apply, our faculty may contact you. We then invite the best
applicants to interview. You'll meet our faculty and see their labs before a
formal offer is made.

Once you are admitted, we help you assemble your Advising Team. Your team will
include your research adviser, your departmental adviser, the director of
graduate studies, a five-member dissertation committee, and the department
chair.

### \+ Authentic Opportunities to Learn Mentorship Through Mentoring

In preparation for your role as a research mentor, Duke Engineering actively
encourages and supports efforts by its PhD students to mentor undergraduates
in research work.

Our PhD students can register to serve as a mentor and post a research project
to a university-wide directory of research opportunities for undergraduates:
Muser.

As mentors, our PhD students build professional mentoring relationships with
undergraduates, while increasing undergraduate involvement in research—one of
the hallmarks of a Duke Engineering education.

### \+ Welcoming, Inclusive Community

By choosing Duke, you join an engaged, diverse and welcoming community that
values and supports you. You'll notice the importance we place on faculty-
doctoral student interaction.

### \+ Excellent Career Outcomes

Duke Engineering offers dedicated career and professional development services
to support our PhD students throughout their time here, as well as PhD Plus,
which prepares students for careers in research and technology development.

Learn more about the career paths of recent Duke ECE PhD graduates.

### \+ A Great Location

Our engineering campus is next to one of the nation's leading academic medical
centers (Duke University Hospital is our across-the-street neighbor). Plus,
the Duke campus is just miles from Research Triangle Park (RTP), home to 250+
major tech companies and a global hub for research.

You'll enjoy a mild climate, acclaimed restaurants, a thriving arts scene and
an affordable cost of living⁠—lower than Boston, New York, Atlanta or the Bay
Area. Your Duke degree can take you anywhere in the United States and beyond.
Some students choose to remain in our Research Triangle region, which is
consistently ranked among the best places to live in the United States.

Visit Duke's website dedicated to all things Durham.

How to apply

  * Quick Facts & Statistics
  * More about Student Services & Amenities
  * Meet Engineering PhD Alumni

Browse Online

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## PhD Contacts

### Michael E. Gehm

Director of Graduate Studies and Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

__919-660-5544

__dgs@ee.duke.edu

### Angela Chanh

Senior Program Coordinator

__919-660-5245

__angela.chanh@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

