Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Life at Duke

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Master's

Live and work in a supportive community that offers outstanding resources both
on-campus and off

## OUR HOME: NORTH CAROLINA'S RESEARCH TRIANGLE

During your time at Duke University you'll have access to the lively community
of our Durham hometown, and to the dynamic Research Triangle region.

Our region enjoys more than 220 days of sunshine a year. We boast an
affordable cost of living—cheaper than Boston, New York, Atlanta or
California.

More about Durham and the Research Triangle Region »

## ENJOY OUR ENGINEERING COMMUNITY

Duke's Pratt School of Engineering offers a close-knit community with many
resources for master's students—and extensive opportunities to get involved
both within ECE and across the school. Learn more about:

  * Graduate Student Groups
  * Graduate Communications & Intercultural Programs
  * Master's Career Services & Professional Development

## Study on the Duke Campus

Duke provides a safe, supportive learning environment for each graduate
student—and their family:

Learn more about:

  * Housing and Dining
  * Health and Safety
  * Transportation and Parking
  * How We Help Students With Families

## INTERNATIONAL STUDENT RESOURCES

As a globally-renowned university, Duke attracts students from around the
world to its graduate degree programs. We are committed to making the
transition to living, studying and working at Duke as smooth as possible.

The information and links below will help you understand how Duke makes
international students welcome.

International House

    

Duke’s International House serves Duke's global community on campus.

During the summer, International hosts virtual online sessions to help new
students plan their transitions. Closer to the beginning of the academic year,
International House holds a Resource Fair and Orientation for international
students, which includes an especially helpful session on academic integrity
and differences in the style of courses in American universities. Throughout
the year, the house provides advice and support to international students and
offers extensive cross-cultural information and training to enhance the
mission of the university.

International House is located at 300 Alexander Avenue on Duke's Central
Campus.

English for International Students

    

Duke Engineering Graduate Communications and Intercultural Programs offers
comprehensive oral and written communication support services to prepare
international students for success in social, professional, and academic
settings. The office provides both one-on-one coaching and an array of
workshops.

Wellness Services & Medical Insurance

    

Duke Student Health Services provides information on adequate medical
insurance plans that international students should obtain, as well as details
on the services and facilities available to all Duke students at the state-of-
the-art Student Wellness Center.

## Diversity and Inclusion

Diversity and inclusion make for better engineers—and a better experience for
engineering students.

That’s why Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering embraces diversity and inclusion
in the classroom and in the laboratory—whether that’s racial, ethnic, sexual
or gender diversity. Learn more about our commitment to diversity and
inclusion.

Duke Engineering offers many opportunities for underrepresented minority
students, from student groups to fellowships, to recruiting incentives, to
events and activities that celebrate the diversity of our entire community.

  * Graduate Recruiting Incentives
  * Diversity Resources for Engineering Graduate Students
  * Duke ECE Diversity Initiative—Professional Organization Memberships

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Miroslav Pajic

Director of Master's Studies and Dickinson Family Associate Professor

__919-660-5252

__dms-ece@duke.edu

### Krista Turner

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-8190

__krista.t@duke.edu

## Admissions

Contact the **Admissions & Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

